1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review

   IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CLIFFORD B. MEACHAM,              :
ET AL.,                           :
            Petitioners           :
       v.                         :  No. 06-1505
KNOLLS ATOMIC POWER               :
LABORATORY, AKA KAPL,             :
INC., ET AL.                      :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Wednesday, April 23, 2008

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:15 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
   of the Petitioners.
DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
   General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
   behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
   supporting the Petitioners.
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
   the Respondents.

1

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                   C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                      3
DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ.
   On behalf of the United States, as amicus
   curiae, supporting the Petitioners               17
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondents                     27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     50

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                            (11:15 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
next in Case 06-1505, Meacham versus Knolls Atomic Power
Laboratory.
            Mr. Russell.
               ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL
                  ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. RUSSELL:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            This case presents a single important but
narrow question.  Everyone agrees that under the
reasonable factor other than age provision of the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act, a business practice
that is reasonable is not unlawful even if it has a
disparate impact on older workers.  The question here is
simply what happens in cases in which the proof on
reasonableness is in equipoise, which party bears the
risk of nonpersuasion.  And on that question the statute
is not silent such as to leave to the courts to decide
for themselves what answer makes the most sense.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Is there a hypothetical
universe where a scheme that discriminates on the basis
of age is reasonable, but there is another alternative
that doesn't discriminate on the basis of age?  Is the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

first alternative still reasonable, or does the
existence of a nondiscriminating alternative make it
unreasonable?
            MR. RUSSELL:  This Court made quite clear in
City of Jackson that the existence of alternatives,
while sufficient perhaps to satisfy Wards Cove and to
show a violation under Section 4(a)(2), is not
sufficient to show that the action is unreasonable.  And
that's what the Court found to be the case in Smith.  So
the standards are, in fact, quite different.
            The reasonable factor other than age
provision looks at the reasonableness of the actual,
existing practice, and that's where the "because of age"
refers to the business practice there.  It doesn't --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  If that's true, then is it
necessary either on the burden of production or burden
of persuasion aspect of the case to consider other
alternatives?
            MR. RUSSELL:  It is in our view necessary in
order to decide whether there is a --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Why is it necessary in
light of the answer you gave me at the outset?
            MR. RUSSELL:  It is necessary in order to
establish whether you even get to the RFOA provision.
By its terms --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Whether you even get to --
            MR. RUSSELL:  Even get to it, because by its
terms the RFOA provision only applies to conduct that is
otherwise prohibited by Section 4(a)(2), and the test
for whether something is otherwise prohibited under
Section 4(a)(2) is Wards Cove.
            This Court in Smith said that language,
which was identical to the language Congress used to
describe the unlawful- employment practice in Title VII,
has the same meaning in both statutes.  And in order to
establish a violation of Wards Cove, you do have to
often look at questions of alternatives.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Russell, this is the
problem that I have with your double inquiry.  First,
you decide business necessity.  Then you decide
reasonable factor other than age.  Once you determine
that there is no business necessity, there is a readily
available alternative, so what you're left with is a
pretext for age discrimination, what -- what function is
there for anything else to perform?
            I mean, I understand the business necessity,
whether you have it pre-1991 or post, but I don't
understand putting this other test on top of it.  It
sounds like you're making it harder for the -- for the
plaintiff.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. RUSSELL:  Well, we think that the
layering of the tests arises out of the structure of the
statute as Congress wrote it.  If this Court disagrees
with us, however, and thinks that there is room in the
statutory language to treat the language of 4(a)(2)
differently in some sense or to apply a different Wards
Cove test, then you're still left with the question of
who bears the burden of reasonableness.
            And on that grounds we agree entirely with
the EEOC that that question is still determined by the
language of the statute, which makes quite clear that
Congress thought that this was an exception to liability
upon which the employer bears the burden of proof.  And
it made that -- made that clear both by setting the RFOA
up as an exception to liability, which this Court has
long told Congress will be construed as establishing an
affirmative defense absent strong indications of
contrary legislative intent, and by sandwiching that
defense in the same sentence as two other affirmative
defenses, which would be a very strange thing to do if
Congress in fact intended the courts to figure out, you
know, one of the three is not like the others, That it's
intended, instead, as a modification of the definition.
            And, third, Congress I think it -- it does,
and it is telling that, in defining the unlawful

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

employment practice, that is in defining the plaintiff's
case in chief, Congress used the same language that it
did in Title VII, and this Court has never construed
that language to require proof of unreasonableness.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, your friend,
of course, makes the point that the age discrimination
prohibition is narrower in scope than Title VII, that
there are more likely to be instances in which a
reasonable factor other than age came into play than
there would be a basis for discrimination on the basis
of race.
            MR. RUSSELL:  We acknowledge that.  This
Court pointed out in Smith that Congress itself
recognized that there was a difference between age and
other kinds of discrimination; but it took that
difference into account not by defining the unlawful
employment practice differently, but by providing age
discrimination defendants a capacious defense that's not
available to any other defendant in a Federal employment
discrimination statute, and by in 1991 not extending the
modifications to Wards Cove to ADEA plaintiffs.
            Congress already specifically addressed this
question of whether Wards Cove should be adjusted in
order to make age discrimination claims harder to prove
than Title VII claims, and it agreed that it should; but

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

it didn't do it in the way that Respondents suggest.
Instead they lowered the bar for Title VII plaintiffs
and left in place the Wards Cove test for age
discrimination.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Isn't it a strain to say
that an employment practice was because of an
individual's age, but at the same time was based on
reasonable factors other than age?
            MR. RUSSELL:  Well --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Doesn't the latter negate
the former or come very close to negating the former?
And if that's the case doesn't that suggest that it's
not really an affirmative defense but what's necessary
to show liability?
            MR. RUSSELL:  I don't think it does.  We use
the example in our brief of a weight-lifting
requirement.  It's quite possible for that requirement,
and quite likely, that it will have a disparate impact
on older workers because of their age.  The effect will
be felt by workers because of their age.  At the same
time, it is quite possible that that practice itself
will be entirely reasonable.  And the difference is
between what the "because of age" refers to in the two
different provisions.
            So if you look on page 3 of the blue brief,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

you have the language of the RFOA provision, and the
reasonable -- the "factors other than age" refers to in
that case the differentiation, that is the business
practice itself.  But if you turn to the prior page on
page 1A and look at the language of (a)(2), the business
practice, that is, the limiting, segregating, or
classifying, doesn't have to be because of age.  There
wouldn't be a disparate treatment claim.  Instead what
"because of age" refers to there is the effect of that
facially neutral practice.  That is, the employee has to
show that the neutral practice deprives or tends to
deprive people of opportunities because of their age.
            And the way that you do that is through the
first step of the Wards Cove analysis, by showing that
the practice falls more heavily on older workers as a
group, so that you can reach the conclusion that the
plaintiff is feeling the effect because of her age as
opposed to because of her sex or some other reason
specific to her.  So it's not the fact that a showing of
RFOA negates the showing that a disparate impact is felt
because of age by the plaintiff.
            As we were -- as I was mentioning before,
the language of the statute we think strongly points in
favor of an ordinary reading of this as an affirmative
defense.  The Respondent's principal objection is that

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

this doesn't give adequate weight to the differences
between age and other forms of discrimination.  But as I
mentioned, we -- we do think that Congress took that
into account in a different way, and there is, we think,
quite an important value here in providing Congress
clear rules of interpretation so that it knows when it
enacts statutes using a particular formulation the
courts will construe it in an ordinary way, absent some
compelling indication to the contrary.
            We recognize, of course, in Betts that this
Court found such a compelling counter-indication in the
legislative history of that statute, and in the -- the
law's traditional treatment of benefits -- retirement
benefits and seniority rights.  But Respondents can't
point to any kind of similar showing in this case that
Congress would have intended this catch-all provision to
mean something other than what it seems to say.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The expression comes from
the Equal Pay Act, with a substitution.  In the Equal
Pay Act it's "any other factor other than sex" and here
it's "a reasonable factor other than age."  And my
impression is that that formulation in this Equal Pay
Act has been rather problematic.  First, you have to
find there is a differential between the pay of men and
the pay of women, so -- and then you go to any other

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

factor other than sex.
            Are you suggesting any different analysis
for the age category than for the sex category.
            MR. RUSSELL:  Well, certainly what you have
to show before you get to the defense is different in
the two statutes.  They are similar in the sense that
neither requires proof of intentional discrimination.
For example, in Corning Glass Works all the plaintiffs
showed there was that a facially neutral practice, that
is paying the night shift folks more than the day shift
folks, resulted in women getting paid less than men for
the same work, and that was sufficient to shift the
burden over to the employer to show that it was based on
any other factor other than age.
            And in here we think that it's similar, that
the plaintiff has to show that a neutral employment
practice has a disparate impact on the basis of age.  We
think in our view, in addition, the plaintiff has to
make the full Wards Cove showing that would be
sufficient in Title VII to establish liability
conclusively.  And at that point, then the burden does
shift to the employer but it's a modest burden.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  The burden of production,
of course.
            MR. RUSSELL:  Yes.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And what about the burden
of persuasion?
            MR. RUSSELL:  The burden of persuasion as
well.  We think that this is --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Why is it that if the
employer has the burden of production, and I assume that
is satisfied by his saying, here's the plan that we
used, here are the factors we used, here is the reason
we used them.  What is so difficult for the -- what is
the difficulty in saying that the employee then has to
show that that is unreasonable?
            MR. RUSSELL:  Well, we think there are some
difficulties, but it's ultimately I think beside the
point.  The question is not what rule would make sense,
but what does the statute -- what rule does the statute
contemplate?  And we think by phrasing the RFOA
provision as a traditional affirmative defense --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You think the statute
doesn't make sense, so we don't --
            MR. RUSSELL:  I think the statute makes
perfect sense the way it's written, but if you
disagree --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Your point that it's
sandwiched between two things that are clearly
affirmative defenses, BFOQ, the employer has the buried

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

of production and persuasion.  And I forgot what the
third one --
            MR. RUSSELL:  The foreign law exception.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is also an affirmative
defense.  So I take it your point is why should this
middle one be any different?
            MR. RUSSELL:  Yes, we think it would be
entirely odd for Congress --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, I'm well aware of
the statutory format here.  But what I want to ask is
why is it beyond the employee's means and capacity to
show that this is unreasonable?  It seems to me that
that's the gravamen of this case.
            MR. RUSSELL:  I don't think it's beyond the
employee's means.  I don't think it's an impossible
burden.  Certainly Congress could have written the
statute in a way that imposed that burden on the
employees.  We do think that it makes sense because --
that the factors that weigh in on the reasonableness
tend to be in the employer's possession and they have
better access to it; it makes sense for them to bear the
burden.
            But ultimately our argument isn't grounded
on the claim that it would be impossible for Congress to
have imposed that burden.  It's grounded on the claim

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that the text of the statute indicates that Congress
made a different decision, that is it accommodated the
employers' interests in dealing with the special facts
of age discrimination differently.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, if I find the text
of the statute neutral or at least not clear, then it is
proper for me to ask as a matter of efficiency where the
burden should be placed, is it not?
            MR. RUSSELL:  It is.  It is.  And my answer
is that we do think that most of the facts going to
reasonableness are in the employer's possession.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but the facts
-- I mean, given discovery, that doesn't seem a very
compelling case.  Once you require the employer to come
up -- in other words, the burden of production -- and
say, well, the reason we did it was this, then it's just
a matter of discovery.  The plaintiff can say, oh, well,
then let me depose that person who is the head of, you
know, whatever the department.  If it's for safety
reasons, for some reason, or training issues, well, then
we depose the person who is in charge of training or
safety and ask them those questions.  And it doesn't
seem to me that the fact that the employer possesses the
information, given very liberal discovery we have, is
much of a factor.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. RUSSELL:  Well, that's true in every
case in which informational disadvantages are cited as a
reason for putting the burden of proof on one party or
the other.  Discovery can always mitigate that
disadvantage.
            But we ultimately think, you know, if you
find the statute so ambiguous as to think that it's a
really critical consideration of what makes the most
sense, then you ought to defer to the judgment of the
EEOC on this question.
            I would like to address if I could one
specific --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the argument was that
EEOC never spoke to disparate impact?
            MR. RUSSELL:  Well, it's certainly clear
that the EEOC -- what their position is, and that they
read their regulation as addressing disparate impact;
and we think that, although it's an inartfully drafted
regulation, by using the terms "individual claim of
discriminatory treatment" rather than the term of art
"disparate treatment," the language is broad enough to
bear their reading, particularly when you see that it
was enacted in the aftermath of a Department of Labor
regulation that nobody disputes addresses
disparate-impact cases, and it has no indication that

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

they were disavowing that position.
            But if I could address the one other
objective --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  In this area of the law,
"treatment" and "impact" are words that have
tremendously different meaning.  Isn't it strange to
argue that they used the term "treatment" when they
really meant "impact"?
            MR. RUSSELL:  Well, I -- I think that the
terms of art are "adverse impact" and "disparate
treatment."  And so that their failure to use either one
of those, I think, supports the idea that they weren't
talking about either one specifically.  I agree, it's --
it's a hard to read regulation.
            But if I could turn, for a moment, to the
Adams Fruit objection, which is Respondent's insistence
that this is not the kind of question that the Court
should defer to an agency on.  My point is simply that
this is a substantive question of law.  It's a question
of whether reasonableness is an element of the unlawful
employment practice in section 4(a)(2), the same kind of
question this Court asked in Smith when it decided
whether discriminatory intent was an element of the
4(a)(2) cause of action.
            And the -- Congress has delegated authority

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

to the EEOC to address those kinds of questions.  In
fact, it went so far as to delegate to the authority --
delegate to the EEOC the authority not only to construe
the exceptions that are in the Act, but to create
additional exceptions.  So I think Congress would be
very surprised, indeed, to find out that this is not the
sort of question to which it had delegated authority to
the EEOC to answer.
            If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Counsel.
            Mr. Joseffer.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF DARYL JOSEFFER
             ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
                    AS AMICUS CURIAE,
               SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
            MR. JOSEFFER:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            Congress enacted the ADEA against a settled
background rule that defendants bear the burden of
persuasion on affirmative defenses and other exceptions
to liability.  And Congress made very clear in the
statute that the "reasonable factors other than age"
provision is precisely such an affirmative defense.  It
did so first by saying that the provision applies to
activities that are "otherwise prohibited by subsection

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

A."
            That has to mean that liability for
disparate impacts exists under subsection A without
regard to whether the employment practice is based on
reasonable factors other than age.  The latter inquiry
is then a defense to the liability that would "otherwise
exist" under subsection A.
            The second is a point that Justice Ginsburg
made, which is that this subsection (f)(1) lists three
different defenses right in a row.  It appears to be
common ground that the other two are clearly affirmative
defenses as to which the employer bears the burden of
persuasion.  And considering that all three are
introduced by the same "otherwise prohibited" language
and they are set forth in a single sentence separated
only by commas, there is no basis for distinguishing
among them.
            Now, the defendant's main argument seems --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'm not sure that if the
statute contains three different conditions, three
different commands, that it follows that the procedural
implementations for all of these has to be the same.
            Do you have any authority for that
proposition?
            MR. JOSEFFER:  No.  I mean, it's just a

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

matter of how to interpret the particular statute.  And
since our point here is that this is a subsection on its
face --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  If you want to say that
Congress was well aware of burden of persuasion, burden
of production problems with affirmative action, then
they wouldn't have drafted it this way, that's one
thing.  I'm not sure that that's true.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I suppose you could appeal
to the maxim noscitur ex sociis, couldn't you --
            MR. JOSEFFER:  Right.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- and say if it's in with
two other chickens, it's probably a chicken?
            MR. JOSEFFER:  Exactly.  I mean, words are
generally known by the company they keep.  And with
these three in a row, it would presumptively assume that
they are all --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  These are not words.
They are operative provisions of law.
            MR. JOSEFFER:  Right.  They are three
separate clauses that are set forth, introduced by the
same, in our view, dispositive language, which is the
"otherwise prohibited" phrase.
            It's also the only way to make sense of the
statute as a whole, because the defendant's view seems

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

to be that "because of age" under subsection (a)(2) and
"reasonable factors other than age" under subsection
(f)(1), should essentially be conflated such that the
second, more specific provision is essentially
surplusage.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Do you think that "based on
reasonable factors other than age" in the ADEA means
something different from because of such -- I'm sorry,
that the -- because of an individual's age in the ADEA
means something different from because of such
individual's race, color, religion, sex or national
origin?
            MR. JOSEFFER:  It modifies -- it modifies
something different.  "Based on reasonable factors other
than age" modifies the underlying employment practice,
the differentiation.  Over an (a)(2) -- and this was the
basis of the Court's decision in Smith in part --
"because of" does not modify the underlying employment
practice.  It modifies the adverse effect of the
unemployment practice.  In other words, the statute
refers to -- and this is on page 1a of the blue brief
appendix -- it refers to an employment practice such as
a classification that adversely affects an individual
because of that individual's age.
            So "because of" logically modifies what

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

comes before it, which is "adverse effect."  And that's
confirmed by the fact that the first sentence that talks
about the employment practices is written in the plural,
whereas "adverse effect" and "because of" are written in
the singular with respect to individual, which is
another point the Court made in footnote 6 in Smith.
            And that also has to be the case because
disparate impact liability is not based on intent.  It
doesn't matter why the employer draft -- has the
employment practice.  What matters is the effect.  So in
any disparate impact case there are two basic inquiries:
the first is, is there an adverse effect on the
protected class; and the second is, has the business
practice nonetheless justifiable.
            And here Congress broke those two out.
Subsection (a)(2) addresses is there an adverse effect
on the -- on the protected class.  And then in (f)(1),
Congress specifically addressed the justification
standard.  That's one reason that we disagree with
Petitioners about their four-part test.  Here Congress
clearly -- here the first part of Wards Cove tells us
whether there is an adverse effect under subsection
(a)(2).  But then when it comes to the justification
step, Congress clearly said that the justification is a
reasonable factor other than age.  So there is no need

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

to read in a different justification standard from the
second and third prongs of Wards Cove.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The problem is that you
would be making this provision more generous to the
plaintiff than -- for example, in Title VII the defense
is business necessity; the employer has the burden of
production; the employee has the burden of persuasion.
Here you'd read -- you're saying you come into the
covered category, you were shown because of age through
impact, and then the burden -- the total burden is on
the employer.
            Am -- am I making myself clear here?
            MR. JOSEFFER:  I think -- I think I
understand the question.  This statute is far more
employer-friendly in the standard than Title VII because
it relies on the reasonable factors -- the
reasonableness defense, which is a much lower standard
than the business necessity test under Title VII.  That
reflects the fact that there are more innocent
explanations for age disparity.
            The separate question here, though, on
burden of persuasion, I think the key point there is
that in Wards Cove this Court only had the equivalent of
(a)(2) to work with.  So it had not much textual basis
to go on with respect to the second and third factors of

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Wards Cove and burden-shifting.  The Court had to do a
lot of gap-filling once it recognized the disparate
impact claim.
            Since then, however, in every one of these
related civil rights statutes that Congress has enacted,
it has spoken more clearly on the justification stage;
and has always in every one of these statutes put that
burden on the defendant.  It did it in Equal Pay Act,
according to this Court's decision in Corning Glass.  It
did it in the revised Title VII.  It did it here.  And
even in the Americans with Disabilities Act, Congress
specified that business necessity is a "defense."
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, I was
surprised not to see Chevron cited in your brief.  What
-- what sort of deference do you think we should give
the EEOC regulations here?
            MR. JOSEFFER:  Auer -- in our view the
regulation itself as far as it goes is entitled to
Chevron deference, because it's a notice and comment
rulemaking pursuant to delegated legislative authority.
We recognize, however, that the regulation on its face
is at best inartfully written; and therefore, the
question is how to interpret the regulation.
            We think EEOC's interpretation of its
regulation in context is reasonable for a combination of

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

a few factors.  First, the Department of Labor
contemporaneously enacted a regulation putting the
burden on the employer in all cases.
            Second, when the EEOC took over rulemaking
authority, it didn't insert this unusual discriminatory
treatment language in there, but the EEOC's position at
that time and ever since has been that it did not intend
a substantive change.
            And third, discriminatory treatment, while
it undoubtedly throws a real wrench in -- or wrinkle
into things -- excuse me -- and takes us out of Chevron
and into Auer, is not a term of art.  Disparate
treatment is a term of art.  The regulations otherwise
use the phrase "different treatment," but discriminatory
treatment is at best confusing, especially
considering --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry.  I
thought Auer deference tells you how to interpret the
regulation.  And having once interpreted the regulation,
you need to know what to do with it.
            MR. JOSEFFER:  My understanding of Auer
deference is that the agency gets deference as the
reasonable interpretation of its regulation.  And the
agency has consistent --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We know what the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

regulation -- we give it deference; we know what the
regulation means.  Now, does that regulation, as
understood in light of Auer deference, get Chevron
deference or something else?
            MR. JOSEFFER:  It would get Chevron
deference.  I mean, I think the two-step process is the
regulation here, in our view, is clearly entitled to
Chevron deference as far as it goes.  And if you defer
under Auer to the agency's view of its regulation, then
that makes the Chevron case.  But it's through the lens
of Auer.
            And finally, as a policy matter, Justice
Kennedy, one can reasonably place this burden of
persuasion either way.  I mean this Court put it one
place in Wards Cove.  Congress immediately abrogated
Wards Cove and put it in the other place.  The sky is
not going to fall either way.  But even if the text
wasn't so clear, one would logically put it on the
employer for a few reasons:  First, all else being
equal, the employer is at least in a better decision to
explain the reasonableness of its very own business
practice.
            And, second, the parties are not ordinarily
expected to prove a negative, which is what the
plaintiff would have to do here.  And that's why in

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

every statute enacted after 1964, which is the first --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Why is it proving a
negative?  They would just have to prove that it was or
was not a reasonable factor other than age.
            MR. JOSEFFER:  Right, and --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Yes, and just adding on to
the Chief Justice, it seems the employer is the one that
would prove the negative.  He has to say there were no
-- here is a whole universe of other frameworks, and
none of these work.
            MR. JOSEFFER:  No, it's a very simple
two-part test.  Once the plaintiff has established an
adverse effect, an adverse impact -- I mean, even the
defendant agrees that presumptively establishes
liability, because the defendant agrees to bear at least
the burden of production at that point.
            And the question for the employer is just to
show that its business practices -- own business
practice is reasonable, is supported by some reasonable
factor other than age.  And it ought not be hard for an
employer, especially considering that the reasonableness
standard is not very daunting, to explain why its own
business practice is reasonable.  And if an employer
can't even persuade someone that its own business
practice is reasonable, then the odds are that there is

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

a problem.
            Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Waxman.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
              ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
            MR. WAXMAN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            I want to make an argument both from
elegance and from function and from structure.  Under
the employment discrimination -- a wide range of
employment discrimination, beginning with this Court's
decision in McDonnell Douglas, this Court has applied a
three-step balance-shifting paradigm in order to help
juries resolve the question of whether discrimination
occurred.  In the disparate treatment cases there is a
burden -- the first step, the plaintiff has to establish
a prima facie case that he was the subject of disparate
treatment because of his race or sex.
            The burden of production then shifts to the
defendant in order to explain, under disparate treatment
cases, a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason, which
eliminates the presumption consistent with Evidence Rule
301, and the burden of proof then resumes on the
plaintiff to prove discrimination because of the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

prohibited characteristic.
            Now, in Wards Cove, this Court looked both
to Rule 301 and to the paradigm in other discrimination
cases to apply a three-part test, in which there is a
burden of proof to establish a presumption, a burden of
production to neutralize it, and then a burden of proof
to show because of race.
            The Second Circuit has done exactly that in
this case, and we think they are right not just because
that harmonizes this Court's prior discrimination cases,
and not just because three seems to be more elegant than
the four steps that the Petitioners want or the two
steps that the Government wants, but because it makes
sense.
            And this goes directly to the question, I
think it was, that Justice Alito asked:  Whether or not
the "reasonable factors other than age" inquiry is
simply what's necessary to show liability, that is, that
it was because of.
            The ADEA doesn't prohibit disparate
treatment.  It doesn't prohibit disparate impact.  It
prohibits -- doesn't prohibit employment practices
simply because they correlate negatively with age.  A
plaintiff has to prove that he has suffered adverse
employment action because of his age.  And the question

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

whether an employer based its action on reasonable
factors other than age is part and parcel of that
inquiry.  It's not a free-standing --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Waxman, the first
part --
            MR. WAXMAN:  -- confession and avoidance
defense.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The way you phrased the
first part, it sounded to me like you were going back to
the interpretation that this Court rejected, that is,
under the Age Discrimination Act there is only
differential treatment, not neutral factor with a
differential impact.
            MR. WAXMAN:  No, not at all.  Not at all.
If I said that, I certainly don't want to be mistaken.
We are not up here arguing that there is no disparate
impact theory of liability under the ADEA as there is
under Title VII.  This Court resolved that question in
Smith, and it resolved it in large part by reference to
the "reasonable factors other than age" provision, which
Justice Stevens' opinion for a plurality of the Court
explained that, when you have a disparate treatment
case, if the plaintiff proves that his -- his or her
treatment -- if the defendant proves that it was because
of something other than age, it isn't disparate

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

treatment.
            The fact that there is an RFOA provision, we
think, does reflect the fact that there is the potential
for liability under disparate impact, but as this Court
explained, it's narrower.  And it's narrower because --
not only because the 1991 amendments didn't apply to age
cases; it's narrower, because as this Court has
recognized in almost every age case it has decided, age
-- unlike race and sex and religion and national origin
-- often does -- sad to say by somebody who is in his
second decade of protection under the ADEA -- often does
correlate with reasonable employment factors.
            And the fact that all -- what it means is
that at step one of the burden-shifting analysis, the
Wards Cove analysis, which in a race or sex case
establishes a strong presumption that the employment
action was because of race or sex because there are so
few employment characteristics that do correlate
negatively with one's race or one's gender, it's a
strong presumption which nonetheless need be met only by
a burden of production.
            This Court has recognized that in the age
context, the presumption actually is quite weak.  And it
would be more than perverse to adopt the Government's
proposal, which is that notwithstanding the much weaker

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

inference, the burden of persuasion is now on the
employer, not the employee.  And, in fact, the principal
problem, I would say, with the Government the EEOC
proposal --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Waxman, what do you do
about the language "otherwise prohibited"?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Excuse me?
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  What do you do about that
language in the statute?
            MR. WAXMAN:  May I just finish my sentence
--
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Sure.
            MR. WAXMAN:  -- Justice Stevens, and go
right to "otherwise prohibited"?
            The government's proposal under which, once
the employer establishes the statistical disparity, the
burden of proof shifts to the employer, equates what
this Court has said over and over again is a prima facie
case or a presumption into liability.  It would dictate
precisely the opposite result that this Court found in
St. Mary's Honor Center.  It would allow the jury, upon
silence by the defendant, not to say, well, you may
consider this presumption to be enough if you don't hear
any other evidence.  It would tell the jury the proof of
statistical disparity is proof of discrimination.  And

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that's just wrong.
            Now, "otherwise prohibited" --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Even that, there's a
question about not merely statistical disparity, but a
causal connection between an identified practice --
            MR. WAXMAN:  Right.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- in the disparity.
            MR. WAXMAN:  That's exactly right.
            Now, with respect to the structure of the
statute and "otherwise prohibited," the -- my friends on
the other side of this case turn almost everything on
the fact that the "reasonable factors other than age"
provision applies in -- in subsection (f) and is -- as
Justice Ginsburg said -- is sandwiched in between two
other provisions that, for argument's sake, let's just
acknowledge are affirmative defenses on which the
employer would bear the burden of proof.  And why
doesn't that prove anything?
            I'll go first to "otherwise prohibited" and
then explain why the sandwich effect is no more
persuasive here than it was to the Court in Betts.
            "Otherwise prohibited" means that it is
prohibited subject to the following conditions.  It
doesn't say who bears the burden of those conditions.
            What it reflects, Justice Stevens, is this

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

fact.  You could have taken everything that is in F and
just put it into A, but you would then have had to put
it into B and C and E.  And so what Congress said was --
it didn't say not -- things that are prohibited in
Section A won't be unlawful if X, Y and Z.  It says
"otherwise prohibited" in those sections.
            In other words, it doesn't -- it means
nothing other than it's prohibited subject to the
following conditions.  Now, I will acknowledge for
argument's purposes -- and it actually suits my argument
-- to show that the BFOQ defense and the
foreign-employer defense are affirmative defenses.
Because as we -- as we know from Black's Law Dictionary
and this Court's decisions, Dixon, for example, an
affirmative defense is a defense that says:  I admit the
allegations of the complaint, but I have a justification
for it that the law recognizes.
            Now, that's --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Isn't it -- isn't the --
isn't the weak point in your argument the following:
Your argument assumes that when the employer implicitly
says I admit the allegations the complainant made, that
the employer is admitting, in effect, to disparate
treatment.  That he is saying:  I did it because it was
my purpose to discriminate against the old.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            But if we read the "because" language as
also admitting the meaning, "I did it or it had an
impact by reason of the age, regardless of my intent,"
then this incongruity that you are arguing about
disappears.
            MR. WAXMAN:  No.  It is quite to the
contrary, unless -- and it may be the case that I'm
completely misunderstanding you.
            The point is that at step one the plaintiff
has to prove a statistical disparity, a substantial,
negative, statistical correlation.  And that raises a
presumption that what was otherwise a neutral -- appears
to be a neutral factor was, in fact, because of age.
That these --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  In other words, for the
purpose of discriminating against the old.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Whether it's --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  And that's -- that's
disparate treatment.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, no.  What this -- what
this Court said in Griggs is there are proof problems.
There are plenty of instances in which there is
undiscovered, unreconciled, unacknowledged inferences
about people.  And old people is the perfect example
where there is no history of invidious discrimination.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

There is no prior hurdle that, unlike black people and
women had to overcome -- which was another factor in
Griggs.  It's that we all get old, and people have
preconceptions sometimes about the enormity of
limitations of age which may not be justified.
            So the way that these defenses, the
sandwich, if you will, works is the plaintiff under
Wards Cove shows his statistical case.  It's a prima
facie -- it shows that there is a disparate impact,
period.  But the statute --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Waxman, you have to
keep in mind they are not just showing a disparate
impact.  Because of a particular practice there is a
disparate impact.  That's what you leave out.  So the
quality of the practice is what is at issue, and the
defendant doesn't come in and say I admit that it was
unlawful.  He first tries to prove it was necessary, and
he fails on that.  And if he fails on that, he has the
lesser burden of proving reasonableness.
            MR. WAXMAN:  No, well let -- let me see if I
can't address Justice Souter's point first.  I do think
I understand your point, which is what's wrong with the
Petitioner's case.  But, Justice Souter, the point is
that once a prima facie case is established in an age
case -- let's just take the three provisions that are at

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

issue in (f)(1).
            Under BFOQ, the employer gets up and says:
Well, ladies and gentlemen, the judge is going to tell
you that they have established a prima facie case that
the way that these otherwise neutral -- that this was
because of the plaintiff's age.  And you know what?  I
admit it.  I, in fact, admit that it was by accident
because of age.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  In an impact -- no.  In an
impact case, he is saying:  I admit that the impact
falls more heavily on the old.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Correct.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  And -- and it seems to me
that's all he has to admit in an impact case.  And he
does so, and then he --
            MR. WAXMAN:  What he basically says is:  I
agree that age was the factor, but I have an excuse for
it.  And, similarly, in the third exception, the
foreign-employers exception, he comes in and says:  You
have heard all of the statistics.  And you know what?  I
did do this to disadvantage old people, because my plant
is in a country that discriminates -- that makes it
illegal for people over 65 to work.  But --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But then he is
not -- he didn't do it to discriminate against old

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

people.  He did it because the foreign country requires
him --
            MR. WAXMAN:  That's correct.  And that's why
I admit -- I admit that I did this in a way that had a
disparate impact on old people.  I did it, if you will,
in order to -- I have a justification for it.  Whereas,
in the reasonable factors other than age, the assertion
is everybody understands that the plaintiff has the
ultimate burden to prove that he or she suffered an
adverse employment action because of age, not because of
some factor that for entirely good reasons correlates
with age.  And the showing that there is a statistical
--
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, then you're -- then
you're just saying that there -- that there is no such
thing as a disparate-impact case.
            MR. WAXMAN:  No.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  You're saying -- you're
saying that there's got to be a disparate-treatment
case.
            MR. WAXMAN:  No, no; not at all.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, then I'm not
following you.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Let's take their -- let's take
their 50-pound hypothetical.  The employer says:  Okay,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

from now on all of our employees have to be able to lift
50 pounds over their head, you know, 10 times in 30
seconds.  And older people or women -- let's say older
people, you know, say:  Well, statistically, that has
wiped us out.  That has had a substantial -- a
substantial adverse effect on us because we are old, and
we have less upper body strength.
            The employer then gives -- comes forward
with a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason or a
reasonable factor other than age, and says, for example,
well, you know, this is -- we need our employees to be
able to lift strong things.  If the plaintiff comes back
and says, I am an accountant, that's not reasonable,
it's a very different case than if this is a requirement
imposed on stocking clerks in an auto parts -- auto
parts shop where you do have to lift very heavy things
over your head.
            In other words, the paradigm that this Court
set out in Wards Cove applies exactly the same way.  It
applies a three-part test except that at step three the
standard of justification is different.
            And this, I think -- I hope, Justice
Stephens, goes to your question.  In Wards Cove this
Court said you show a prima facie case of a disparate
impact.  The burden then -- the burden of production

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

then shifts to the employer to explain that it was --
there is a business -- to articulate a business
justification for the facially neutral requirement.
            And what the plaintiff then has to do is
bear the burden of proving that that wasn't a business
necessity; that there is one other way, one other way in
which it could have been done; and, therefore --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But you there agree that
there is a distinction between "business necessity" and
"business reasonableness"?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Yes.  And, in fact, I think
it's sort of embedded in the very opening of the blue
brief in this case, where the Petitioner says:  Well,
the Court has sometimes used the word "business
justification," and the Court has sometimes used the
word "business necessity," and we don't really think
that means anything, so we use the words
interchangeably.
            But this case shows that it means everything
because at step three of Wards Cove the petitioner --
the plaintiff's burden is proving that it is -- that
there is one other way -- that all you have to show is
that it wasn't a necessity to do it that way in order to
achieve your objective and the employee wins.
            But because of the differential in

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

correlation between age and employment factors, in this
case it is a business justification; that is, the
employee has to come in and say it just wasn't
reasonable to use that.
            And this case is a perfect example.  Here we
have a research lab that has one client.  It's the
nuclear reactor division of the United States submarine
unit.  And they come, and they say -- and there is no
dispute about the facts here -- they say the Cold War is
over.  We aren't going to have as much work for you.
And since you're cost-plus, you're going to have to
reduce your work force; and because we are in a
different kind of war, we have new missions.  You are
going to have to design and engineer and implement
things that you hadn't done it before.  And so you need
to figure out a way to go ahead and do this.
            And what the company did was to go through
all of its units and then subunits and sections, and
say:  Given the new mission that the Navy has told us we
are going to have to occupy, do you have people -- do
you have more people than you're going to get paid for
to do what you have to do?
            If the answer is yes -- if the answer is no,
you're fine.  If the answer is yes, please consider the
following:  What are the skills within the people within

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

your section, subsection, or unit that are excess, that
in light of the reduced and changed mission we don't
need?  Identify those skills.  Then go through each one
of your employees; and if it is an employee with that
skill, rank them on a scale of 1 to 10 according to four
different characteristics:  Seniority, which gives a
benefit to older workers; recent job-performance
ratings; the criticality of the other skills they have,
do they have some other skill that is going to be
required; and their flexibility -- how willing have they
been, or are they, to learn new skills?
            And the company has a training manual.  It
goes through and trains the managers to do this.  It is
approved by the Department of Energy and the Department
of the Navy.  But after the managers engage in this
analysis and prepare this matrix, they then have to
justify it before a central review board, which the
plaintiff's own expert acknowledged was set up in order
to make the managers defend each decision and make sure
that those judgments corresponded with overall
management's responsibilities.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Still, the numbers, the
way it came out, are rather startling.  That there were
31 people who were RIF'd; and of those, 30 turn out to
be over 40.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. WAXMAN:  That's correct.  And as the
district court found and the court of appeals found,
those were strikingly stark numbers.  They were so stark
that they came to the immediate attention of the
company's management and general counsel, Mr. Correa,
who was -- who looked at this and said:  We are going to
get sued for age discrimination.  What should we do
about this?
            And what he did about this, what the proof
showed, is he went back and said:  Is each one of these
decisions justifiable?  Did they really apply these
factors?  He testified that he considered just saying:
We'll go back and redo it so that the age distribution
comes out right.  But he was concerned that the New York
human rights law, which defines -- this is sort of
astounding -- defines "older worker" as somebody over
18, does have a reverse-discrimination provision.
            But the point here is -- and, therefore, he
decided:  We did this right; we used a matrix that
unrebutted testimony said was the paradigm in industry.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the terms
"flexibility," "criticality" -- I mean the way you
described it, it sounds very mechanical, mathematical.
But those terms are -- they call for some human
judgment.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. WAXMAN:  They definitely do.  And the
second question that was presented in this case, which
the Court didn't accept, was an assertion by the
Petitioner that the Second Circuit had assertedly held
that where a reasonable factor other than age derives
from a subjective judgment, the Second Circuit had held
that it was immune from review under disparate-impact
theory, which, as the Government pointed out in its
invitation brief, is not at all what the Second Circuit
held.
            The point is that this Court in Smith and
earlier in Hazen Paper and earlier age cases was highly
cognizant of the fact that unless there is a test that
implies that -- that applies certainty for employers,
there is going to be -- age -- if this standard isn't
reasonable and if it isn't up to the other side to prove
that it's unreasonable, employers are essentially going
to take age into account.  They are going to do what
Mr. Correa testified he wouldn't do, which is rejigger
the results to come up with a -- a percentage that more
approximated the balance in the work force.  And that,
this Court has said repeatedly --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, maybe because he
thought that, given the subjectivity of some of these
factors, that there was at least unconscious age bias in

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the decisions that were made.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, Justice Ginsburg, that is
why -- and it was testimony both from the employees in
the case and from our uncross-examined expert and even
their expert -- the review board -- the company set up a
central review board which was trained and which
examined every single manager about every single
decision, whether you call it subjective or objective.
            Now, the district court -- the trial court
who heard the testimony said that he -- he deemed
flexibility and criticality objective.  He said they
were objective factors because of all the instructions
that were given, which we have reprinted in the joint
appendix in this case.  But even assuming -- and I
certainly take your point, Justice Ginsburg, that if you
ask a manager to evaluate an employee on the degree of
criticality of that employee's skills or the flexibility
of that employee, you can give her all the training in
the world.  You can give her a 16-point checklist.
Ultimately, you're relying on a judgment by a human
being of another human being.
            But why would we not want employers to do
that?  Why would we want them to -- to retreat to the
safe harbor of some safe quota.  You know, gee, we have
a 60/40 split in our work force; and, wow, these

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

numbers, we did it according to Hoyle.  We've done --
this is the paradigm RIF process, but go back and do it
in a way that comes out with a specific set of numbers.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, is your
recent discussion about what happened here go simply to,
I guess, your alternative argument, that we should
affirm because you're right, regardless of who bears the
burden; or does it really go to the legal question
before us?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, I think it goes to both.
I mean it goes to -- it simply -- it certainly goes to
the question over whether, whoever has the burden on
reasonableness, you ought to do what you did in Smith
and what the Eleventh Circuit did in Montalvo, which is
the case you cited in Smith.  And in --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Here we have a jury
verdict that was affirmed by the court of appeals.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, we have a jury verdict.
We have a jury verdict under Wards Cove.  The court of
appeals, as we pointed out in -- to the court of appeals
the first time and in our petition for certiorari here
the last time and to the court of appeals the second
time and to this Court on pages 4, 5, and 7 of our brief
in opposition this time -- the court of appeals was
simply wrong in both step one and step three of Wards

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Cove.  This is even assuming Wards Cove were the test.
There is -- under step three of Wards Cove, which is how
this case was tried, it was concededly the plaintiff's
burden to prove that there was some other way, one other
way, to do what the company wanted that established that
this wasn't a business necessity.  And I will represent
to the Court that in five and a half weeks of testimony
there is not one sentence of evidence to that effect.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But that was taken out of
it by Judge Jacobs when he redid it.  He said, we were
on the wrong track with business necessity.  Business
necessity is out.  It's only reasonable factor of age.
            MR. WAXMAN:  What Judge Jacobs said is the
case was tried under business necessity, under which the
plaintiffs at least had to prove that there was some
other way that the company could equally have achieved
its objectives.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, wasn't the issue of
reasonable factor under age tried in the trial court
when the case was tried?
            MR. WAXMAN:  No, because the EEOC regulation
at the time, regulation (d), which deals with
disparate-impact cases, said that reasonable -- the
reasonable factors other than age provision is proven
by, and only by, the business-necessity defense, a

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

defense as to which the plaintiffs bear the burden.
            And, in fact, in Wards Cove, the Government
in Wards Cove was on the employer's side.  The
Government urged the court to do exactly what it did.
And under the Government's own regulation 1625.7(d), the
burden of proving reasonable factors other than age was
correctly on the plaintiff, but incorrectly equated with
the substantive showing of business.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is that --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Am I correct to understand
that your trial counsel then took the position you must
prove business necessity?  I mean an absence of business
necessity, rather than reasonableness.  They didn't
advance their strongest defense.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, no, we took the position
that reasonable factors other than age was a separate
test and was a separate defense.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Right.
            MR. WAXMAN:  The judge instructed the jury
to the contrary and said under Wards Cove --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Was Judge Pooler wrong,
then?  She said, in effect:  You forfeited reasonable
factor other than sex, because you didn't bring it up.
You were going on business necessity.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, what happened was -- I

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

mean, Judge Pooler is wrong in certain respects, but not
that respect.  We -- our answer pleaded reasonable
factors other than age, but we didn't -- neither we nor
our opponents asked for a separate instruction on
reasonable factors other than age.  The jury was
instructed on the Wards Cove analysis because --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The jury didn't hear a
word about reasonable factors other than age.  They
heard about business necessity.
            MR. WAXMAN:  That's correct.  I mean that --
and that's because -- you could say that it was a mutual
mistake by everyone involved.  But the EEOC had directed
under subsection (d) of its regulations that reasonable
factor other than age could be established only by
proving business necessity.  And both parties --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  As everybody now knows,
that was wrong.
            MR. WAXMAN:  That's correct.  And the -- my
point is we are --  we are entitled to judgment in our
favor.  We are entitled to an affirmance because, number
one, the Second Circuit was correct that the burden of
proving reasonableness was on them, and the -- the
Petitioners have acknowledged expressly on page 53 of
their blue brief that if in fact it is true that the
Second -- if the Second Circuit is in fact correct, then

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the judgment is affirmed, that is, they say when a --
"While a defendant has no obligation to press an issue
upon which the plaintiff bears the burden of proof --
and therefore the Second Circuit may have been justified
in reviewing the evidence of reasonableness in light of
its holding that Petitioners bore the burden of proof"
--
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  But did you plead this as
an affirmative defense?  Did you plead it as an
affirmative defense?
            MR. WAXMAN:  We pleaded it as a -- I can't
bring the complaint to mind, but we pleaded it as a
separately specified defense, yes.  We said, in our
answer to the complaint, we said this is a reasonable
factor other than age.
            And so we are -- everyone acknowledges that
if the Second Circuit is correct as to where the burden
applies, the judgment should be affirmed.  Our
submission is that the judgment has to be affirmed
whether or not the burden applies as the Second Circuit
held.
            Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Russell, you have four minutes
remaining.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL
                  ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. RUSSELL:  I'd like to begin by
addressing the general legal question that the Court
granted cert on, and particularly going back to this
idea, this assertion that the proof of the RFOA is
somehow a negation of the obligation that the plaintiff
has to prove that they have suffered a disparate impact
because of age.  It is simply incorrect.  It's based --
as, Justice Souter, I think you were suggesting in some
of your questions -- on a confusion about what the
"because of age" requirement is in a disparate-impact
case under Section 4(a)(2).  The requirement under
Section 4(a)(2) is simply to show that the effect of the
practice is felt because of age, while the defense in
the RFOA provision is to show that the practice itself
is reasonable even though it has this effect.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, the practice -- if a
practice correlates with a number of -- statistically
correlates with a number of different factors, is it
because of all of those factors?
            MR. RUSSELL:  I think, under Wards Cove,
this Court has said that it does, and so under Wards
Cove you establish that the discrimination is felt by
older workers because of age by showing that all the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

workers as a group suffer disproportionately from it.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Wards Cove, in other words,
says "because" may mean "correlation" and it mean
"purpose," either one.
            MR. RUSSELL:  Yes.  I mean --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes.
            MR. RUSSELL:  But I think all you have to
show under 4(a)(2) is that the practice tends to
disadvantage older workers because of their age.  And so
again in our weight -- weight example, the employer
admits in our weight example that the effect of the
neutral practice is to fall more heavily, is to restrict
the employment opportunities of older workers because of
age, but says, even if that's true -- even if there is a
disparate impact because of age-- we are still entitled
to the defense because the practice itself is
reasonable.
            It's also -- I would like to address the
suggestion that Griggs is directed -- or disparate
impact is directed at ferreting out intentional
discrimination.  Certainly it serves that function in
many cases, but that's not the sole purpose of it.  And
it's simply not the purpose of the prima facie case in
Wards Cove to give rise to an inference of intentional
discrimination, and the fact that it doesn't as strongly

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

in the age case I think isn't a reason to think that
Congress intended the courts to develop a different test
for showing what's otherwise prohibited under 4(a)(2).
            And, finally, if I could address some of the
questions regarding what happened in this case.  This
case, Justice Stevens, was not tried with reasonableness
in mind, both because Respondents abandoned their
"reasonable factor other than age" defense, which they
had raised as an affirmative defense in their answer.  I
believe Mr. Waxman is incorrect when he suggests that
they in fact asked for instructions.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, if he put in all the
evidence he's described, that would not have proven
business necessity.  It seems to me that evidence had to
go to the issue of reasonableness.
            MR. RUSSELL:  It may have been relevant to
reasonableness, but that's not why it was put in.
Before the trial began --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Was he arguing that it was
necessary to follow this one downsizing practice?
            MR. RUSSELL:  They certainly, I think --
they used that argument to show that they had a business
justification and to try to rebut our showing of
alternative, equally effective practices.  But it was
clear by the time of trial that -- you know, they had

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

proposed jury instructions that didn't ask for
reasonableness to be part of the case.  We proceeded
with the case on the assumption that we would be
entitled to prevail under these instructions so long
that we showed that the current practice, reasonable or
not, had a disparate impact and was subject to an
equally effective alternative.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  And just one other detail,
Did -- the district judge not instruct the jury on this
defense?
            MR. RUSSELL:  It did not.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  It did not?
            MR. RUSSELL:  The only instruction was that
we'd be entitled to prevail if we showed Wards Cove, and
its --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  You have an unusual case
where the decisive issue, at least when you get to this
Court, is something the jury never passed on.
            MR. RUSSELL:  Well, I think that's right.
And ordinarily I think you would say that the
defendants, by not raising the issue to the jury, if
it's an affirmative defense, have waived it.  They ask
for an excuse, given the change in law.  We don't think
that the change in law excuses their failure to waive
it.  The regulation that they point to they themselves

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

have argued here isn't entitled to much of any
deference.  And, in fact, at the same time they were
simultaneously arguing that there wasn't even any
disparate-impact liability in the first place under the
ADEA.  So I don't think they can actually claim that
they were relying on that.
            Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 12:15 p.m. the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

A

abandoned 52:7
able 38:1,12
above-entitled

1:14 54:11

abrogated 25:15
absence 47:12
absent 6:17 10:8
accept 43:3
access 13:21
accident 36:7
accommodated

14:2

account 7:16
10:4 43:18
accountant

38:13

achieve 39:24
achieved 46:16
acknowledge
7:12 32:16
33:9

acknowledged
41:18 48:23
acknowledges

49:16

Act 3:14 10:19
10:20,23 17:4
23:8,11 29:11
action 4:8 16:24

19:6 28:25
29:1 30:17
37:10

activities 17:25
actual 4:12
Adams 16:16
adding 26:6
addition 11:18
additional 17:5
address 15:11

16:2 17:1
35:21 51:18
52:4

addressed 7:22

addresses 15:24

21:18

21:16

addressing
15:17 50:4
ADEA 7:21

17:18 20:7,9
28:20 29:17
30:11 54:5

adequate 10:1
adjusted 7:23
admit 33:15,22
35:16 36:7,7
36:10,14 37:4
37:4

admits 51:11
admitting 33:23

34:2

adopt 30:24
advance 47:14
adverse 16:10
20:19 21:1,4
21:12,16,22
26:13,13 28:24
37:10 38:6

adversely 20:23
affirm 45:7
affirmance

48:20

affirmative 6:17
6:19 8:13 9:24
12:17,25 13:4
17:20,23 18:11
19:6 32:16
33:12,15 49:9
49:10 52:9
53:22

affirmed 45:17

49:1,18,19

aftermath 15:23
age 3:13,13,24
3:25 4:11,13
5:16,19 7:6,9
7:14,17,24 8:3
8:7,8,19,20,23
9:2,7,9,12,17
9:21 10:2,21
11:3,14,17
14:4 17:22
18:5 20:1,2,7,9

20:15,24 21:25
22:9,20 26:4
26:20 28:17,23
28:25 29:2,11
29:20,25 30:6
30:8,8,22
32:12 34:3,13
35:5,24 36:6,8
36:17 37:7,10
37:12 38:10
40:1 42:7,13
43:5,12,15,18
43:25 46:12,19
46:24 47:6,16
48:3,5,8,14
49:15 50:9,12
50:15,25 51:9
51:14,15 52:1
52:8

agency 16:18

24:22,24

agency's 25:9
agree 6:9 16:13

36:17 39:8
agreed 7:25
agrees 3:12
26:14,15

ahead 40:16
AKA 1:8
AL 1:4,9
Alito 8:5,10 16:4

20:6 28:16
50:18

allegations
33:16,22
allow 31:21
alternative 3:24
4:1,2 5:18 45:6
52:24 53:7

alternatives 4:5

4:18 5:12

ambiguous 15:7
amendments

30:6

Americans

23:11

amicus 1:22 2:6

55

Alderson Reporting Company

17:14

analysis 9:14

11:2 30:14,15
41:16 48:6
answer 3:21

4:22 14:9 17:8
40:23,23,24
48:2 49:14
52:9

appeal 19:9
appeals 42:2

45:17,20,20,22
45:24

APPEARAN...

appears 18:10

1:17

34:12

44:14

24:12,13

articulate 39:2
asked 16:22
28:16 48:4
52:11

aspect 4:17
assertedly 43:4
assertion 37:7

43:3 50:6

Assistant 1:20
assume 12:6

19:16

assumes 33:21
assuming 44:14

46:1

assumption 53:3
astounding

Atomic 1:7 3:4
attention 42:4
Auer 23:17

24:12,18,21
25:3,9,11

authority 16:25
17:2,3,7 18:23
23:20 24:5
auto 38:15,15
available 5:18

7:19

avoidance 29:6
aware 13:9 19:5
a.m 1:16 3:2

B
B 1:3 33:3
back 29:9 38:12
42:10,13 45:2
50:5

background

17:19

balance 43:21
balance-shifting

27:14
bar 8:2
based 8:7 11:13
18:4 20:6,14
21:8 29:1 50:9

appendix 20:22

42:16

applied 27:13
applies 5:3

17:24 32:13
38:19,20 43:14
49:18,20

apply 6:6 28:4

30:6 42:11

approved 41:14
approximated

43:21

April 1:12
area 16:4
argue 16:7
argued 54:1
arguing 29:16

34:4 52:19
54:3

argument 1:15
2:2,10 3:3,7
13:23 15:13
17:12 18:18
27:5,9 33:10
33:20,21 45:6
50:1 52:22
argument's

32:15 33:10

arises 6:2
art 15:20 16:10

Official - Subject to Final Review

basic 21:11
basically 36:16
basis 3:23,25

7:10,10 11:17
18:16 20:17
22:24

bear 13:21

15:22 17:19
26:15 32:17
39:5 47:1

bears 3:18 6:8

6:13 18:12
32:24 45:7
49:3

began 52:18
beginning 27:12
behalf 1:18,22

1:24 2:4,6,9,12
3:8 17:13 27:6
50:2

believe 52:10
benefit 41:7
benefits 10:13

10:14

best 23:22 24:15
better 13:21

25:20

Betts 10:10

32:21

beyond 13:11,14
BFOQ 12:25
33:11 36:2

bias 43:25
black 35:1
Black's 33:13
blue 8:25 20:21

39:12 48:24
board 41:17

44:5,6

body 38:7
bore 49:6
brief 8:16,25
20:21 23:14
39:13 43:9
45:23 48:24

bring 47:23

49:12

broad 15:21
broke 21:15
burden 4:16,16
6:8,13 11:13
11:21,22,23
12:1,3,6 13:16
13:17,22,25
14:8,15 15:3
17:19 18:12
19:5,5 22:6,7
22:10,10,22
23:8 24:3
25:13 26:16
27:17,20,24
28:5,5,6 30:21
31:1,17 32:17
32:24 35:19
37:9 38:25,25
39:5,21 45:8
45:12 46:4
47:1,6 48:21
49:3,6,17,20

burden-shifting

23:1 30:14
buried 12:25
business 3:14
4:14 5:15,17
5:21 9:3,5
21:13 22:6,18
23:12 25:21
26:18,18,23,24
39:2,2,5,9,10
39:14,16 40:2
46:6,11,11,14
47:8,12,12,24
48:9,15 52:14
52:22

business-nece...

46:25

C

C 2:1 3:1 33:3
call 42:24 44:8
capacious 7:18
capacity 13:11
case 3:4,11 4:9
4:17 7:2 8:12

9:3 10:15
13:13 14:14
15:2 21:7,11
25:10 27:18
28:9 29:23
30:8,15 31:19
32:11 34:7
35:8,23,24,25
36:4,10,14
37:16,20 38:14
38:24 39:13,19
40:2,5 43:2
44:4,14 45:15
46:3,14,20
50:13 51:23
52:1,5,6 53:2,3
53:16 54:9,10
cases 3:17 15:25
24:3 27:16,22
28:4,10 30:7
43:12 46:23
51:22

catch-all 10:16
category 11:3,3

22:9

causal 32:5
cause 16:24
Center 31:21
central 41:17

44:6

cert 50:5
certain 48:1
certainly 11:4
13:16 15:15
29:15 44:15
45:11 51:21
52:21

certainty 43:14
certiorari 45:21
change 24:8

53:23,24

changed 41:2
characteristic

28:1

characteristics

30:18 41:6
charge 14:21

checklist 44:19
Chevron 23:14
23:19 24:11
25:3,5,8,10
chicken 19:13
chickens 19:13
chief 3:3,9 7:2,5
14:12 17:10,16
19:18 23:13
24:17,25 26:2
26:7 27:3,7
36:24 45:4
49:23 54:8
Circuit 28:8

43:4,6,9 45:14
48:21,25 49:4
49:17,20

cited 15:2 23:14

45:15
City 4:5
civil 23:5
claim 9:8 13:24

13:25 15:19
23:3 54:5

claims 7:24,25
class 21:13,17
classification

20:23

classifying 9:7
clauses 19:21
clear 4:4 6:11,14

10:6 14:6
15:15 17:21
22:12 25:18
52:25

clearly 12:24

18:11 21:21,24
23:6 25:7
clerks 38:15
client 40:6
CLIFFORD 1:3
close 8:11
cognizant 43:13
Cold 40:9
color 20:11
combination

23:25

come 8:11 14:14

22:8 35:16
40:3,8 43:20

comes 10:18

21:1,23 36:19
38:8,12 42:14
45:3

commands

18:21

commas 18:16
comment 23:19
common 18:11
company 19:15

40:17 41:12
44:5 46:5,16

company's 42:5
compelling 10:9

10:11 14:14
complainant

33:22

complaint 33:16

49:12,14

completely 34:8
concededly 46:3
concerned 42:14
conclusion 9:16
conclusively

11:21

conditions 18:20
32:23,24 33:9

conduct 5:3
confession 29:6
confirmed 21:2
conflated 20:3
confusing 24:15
confusion 50:11
Congress 5:8
6:3,12,16,21
6:24 7:2,13,22
10:3,5,16 13:8
13:16,24 14:1
16:25 17:5,18
17:21 19:5
21:15,18,20,24
23:5,11 25:15
33:3 52:2

connection 32:5

56

Alderson Reporting Company

consider 4:17
31:23 40:24
consideration

15:8

considered

42:12

considering
18:13 24:16
26:21

12:16

24:2

30:23

consistent 24:24

27:23

construe 10:8

17:3

7:3

construed 6:16

contains 18:20
contemplate

contemporane...

context 23:25

contrary 6:18

10:9 34:7
47:20

Corning 11:8

23:9

Correa 42:5

43:19

correct 36:12

37:3 42:1
47:10 48:10,18
48:21,25 49:17

correctly 47:7
correlate 28:23

30:12,18

correlates 37:11

50:19,20
correlation
34:11 40:1
51:3

corresponded

41:20

cost-plus 40:11
counsel 17:10
23:13 27:3
42:5 45:4

Official - Subject to Final Review

47:11 49:23
54:8

counter-indic...

criticality 41:8

42:22 44:11,17
curiae 1:22 2:7

country 36:22

current 53:5

17:14

10:11

37:1

course 7:6 10:10

11:24

court 1:1,15

3:10 4:4,9 5:7
6:3,15 7:3,13
10:11 16:17,22
17:17 21:6
22:23 23:1
25:14 27:8,13
28:2 29:10,18
29:21 30:4,7
30:22 31:18,20
32:21 34:21
38:18,24 39:14
39:15 42:2,2
43:3,11,22
44:9,9 45:17
45:19,20,22,23
45:24 46:7,19
47:4 50:4,23
53:18

courts 3:20 6:21

10:8 52:2

Court's 20:17
23:9 27:12
28:10 33:14

Cove 4:6 5:6,11
6:7 7:21,23 8:3
9:14 11:19
21:21 22:2,23
23:1 25:15,16
28:2 30:15
35:8 38:19,23
39:20 45:19
46:1,1,2 47:2,3
47:20 48:6
50:22,24 51:2
51:24 53:14
covered 22:9
create 17:4
critical 15:8

D

d 3:1 46:22

48:13

DARYL 1:20

2:5 17:12

daunting 26:22
day 11:10
dealing 14:3
deals 46:22
decade 30:11
decide 3:20 4:20

5:15,15

decided 16:22

30:8 42:19
decision 14:2
20:17 23:9
25:20 27:13
41:19 44:8

decisions 33:14

42:11 44:1

decisive 53:17
deemed 44:10
defend 41:19
defendant 7:19
23:8 26:14,15
27:21 29:24
31:22 35:16
49:2

defendants 7:18

17:19 53:21
defendant's
18:18 19:25

defense 6:17,19
7:18 8:13 9:25
11:5 12:17
13:5 17:23
18:6 22:5,17
23:12 29:7
33:11,12,15,15
46:25 47:1,14
47:17 49:9,10

49:13 50:15
51:16 52:8,9
53:10,22

defenses 6:20
12:25 17:20
18:10,12 32:16
33:12 35:6

defer 15:9 16:18

25:8

deference 23:15
23:19 24:18,22
24:22 25:1,3,4
25:6,8 54:2

defines 42:15,16
defining 6:25

7:1,16

definitely 43:1
definition 6:23
degree 44:16
delegate 17:2,3
delegated 16:25

17:7 23:20
department
1:21 14:19
15:23 24:1
41:14,14

depose 14:18,21
deprive 9:12
deprives 9:11
derives 43:5
describe 5:9
described 42:23

52:13

design 40:14
detail 53:8
determine 5:16
determined 6:10
develop 52:2
dictate 31:19
Dictionary

33:13

difference 7:14

7:16 8:22

differences 10:1
different 4:10
6:6 8:24 10:4
11:2,5 13:6

14:2 16:6
18:10,20,21
20:8,10,14
22:1 24:14
38:14,21 40:13
41:6 50:20
52:2

differential

10:24 29:12,13
39:25

differentiation

9:3 20:16

differently 6:6

7:17 14:4

difficult 12:9
difficulties

12:13

difficulty 12:10
directed 48:12

51:19,20

directly 28:15
Disabilities

23:11

disadvantage
15:5 36:21
51:9

disadvantages

disagree 12:22

15:2

21:19

disagrees 6:3
disappears 34:5
disavowing 16:1
discovery 14:13
14:17,24 15:4

discriminate
3:25 33:25
36:25

discriminates
3:23 36:22

discriminating

34:16

discrimination
3:14 5:19 7:6
7:10,15,18,20
7:24 8:4 10:2
11:7 14:4

57

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

27:11,12,15,25
28:3,10 29:11
31:25 34:25
42:7 50:24
51:21,25

discriminatory

15:20 16:23
24:5,9,14

discussion 45:5
disparate 3:16
8:18 9:8,20
11:17 15:14,17
15:21 16:10
18:3 21:8,11
23:2 24:12
27:16,18,21
28:20,21 29:16
29:22,25 30:4
33:23 34:19
35:9,12,14
37:5 38:24
50:8 51:15,19
53:6

disparate-imp...

15:25 37:16
43:7 46:23
50:12 54:4

disparate-trea...

37:19

disparity 22:20
31:16,25 32:4
32:7 34:10
dispositive

disproportion...

19:22

51:1

dispute 40:9
disputes 15:24
distinction 39:9
distinguishing

distribution

18:16

42:13

district 42:2
44:9 53:9

division 40:7
Dixon 33:14

double 5:14
Douglas 27:13
downsizing

52:20

draft 21:9
drafted 15:18

D.C 1:11,18,21

19:7

1:24

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 33:3
earlier 43:12,12
EEOC 6:10

15:10,14,16
17:1,3,8 23:16
24:4 31:3
46:21 48:12
EEOC's 23:24

24:6

effect 8:19 9:9

9:17 20:19
21:1,4,10,12
21:16,22 26:13
32:20 33:23
38:6 46:8
47:22 50:14,17
51:11

effective 52:24

53:7

efficiency 14:7
either 4:16

16:11,13 25:14
25:17 51:4

elegance 27:10
elegant 28:11
element 16:20

16:23

Eleventh 45:14
eliminates 27:23
embedded 39:12
employee 9:10

12:10 22:7
31:2 39:24
40:3 41:4
44:16,18

employees 13:18

38:1,11 41:4
44:3

employee's

13:11,15 44:17

employer 6:13
11:13,22 12:6
12:25 14:14,23
18:12 21:9
22:6,11 24:3
25:19,20 26:7
26:17,21,23
29:1 31:2,16
31:17 32:17
33:21,23 36:2
37:25 38:8
39:1 51:10

employers 14:3
43:14,17 44:22

employer's

13:20 14:11
47:3

employer-frie...

22:15

employment

3:14 5:9 7:1,17
7:19 8:6 11:16
16:21 18:4
20:15,18,22
21:3,10 27:11
27:12 28:22,25
30:12,16,18
37:10 40:1
51:13

enacted 15:23

17:18 23:5
24:2 26:1
enacts 10:7
Energy 41:14
engage 41:15
engineer 40:14
enormity 35:4
entirely 6:9 8:22

13:8 37:11
entitled 23:18
25:7 48:19,20
51:15 53:4,14
54:1

equal 10:19,19

10:22 23:8
25:20

equally 46:16
52:24 53:7
equated 47:7
equates 31:17
equipoise 3:18
equivalent

22:23

26:21

especially 24:15

ESQ 1:18,20,24

2:3,5,8,11

essentially 20:3

20:4 43:17
establish 4:24
5:11 11:20
27:17 28:5
50:24

established

26:12 35:24
36:4 46:5
48:14

establishes

26:14 30:16
31:16

establishing

6:16

ET 1:4,9
evaluate 44:16
everybody 37:8

48:16

evidence 27:23

31:24 46:8
49:5 52:13,14

ex 19:10
exactly 19:14

28:8 32:8
38:19 47:4

examined 44:7
example 8:16

11:8 22:5
33:14 34:24
38:10 40:5
51:10,11

exception 6:12

6:15 13:3
36:18,19

exceptions 17:4

17:5,20

excess 41:1
excuse 24:11
31:7 36:17
53:23

excuses 53:24
exist 18:7
existence 4:2,5
existing 4:13
exists 18:3
expected 25:24
expert 41:18

44:4,5

explain 25:21
26:22 27:21
32:20 39:1

explained 29:22

30:5

explanations

22:20

expression

10:18

expressly 48:23
extending 7:20

F

f 18:9 20:3 21:17

32:13 33:1
36:1

face 19:3 23:21
facially 9:10
11:9 39:3
facie 27:18

31:18 35:9,24
36:4 38:24
51:23

fact 4:10 6:21
9:19 14:23
17:2 21:2
22:19 30:2,3
30:13 31:2
32:12 33:1
34:13 36:7
39:11 43:13

58

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

47:2 48:24,25
51:25 52:11
54:2

factor 3:13 4:11
5:16 7:9 10:20
10:21 11:1,14
14:25 21:25
26:4,20 29:12
34:13 35:2
36:17 37:11
38:10 43:5
46:12,19 47:23
48:14 49:15
52:8

factors 8:8 9:2

12:8 13:19
17:22 18:5
20:2,7,14
22:16,25 24:1
28:17 29:2,20
30:12 32:12
37:7 40:1
42:12 43:25
44:12 46:24
47:6,16 48:3,5
48:8 50:20,21
facts 14:3,10,12

40:9

fails 35:18,18
failure 16:11

53:24

fall 25:17 51:12
falls 9:15 36:11
far 17:2 22:14

23:18 25:8

favor 9:24 48:20
Federal 7:19
feeling 9:17
felt 8:20 9:20

50:15,24

ferreting 51:20
figure 6:21

40:16

finally 25:12

52:4

find 10:24 14:5

15:7 17:6

fine 40:24
finish 31:10
first 4:1 5:14
9:14 10:23
17:24 21:2,12
21:21 24:1
25:19 26:1
27:17 29:4,9
32:19 35:17,21
45:21 54:4

five 46:7
flexibility 41:10
42:22 44:11,17

folks 11:10,11
follow 52:20
following 32:23
33:9,20 37:23
40:25

follows 18:21
footnote 21:6
force 40:12

43:21 44:25
foreign 13:3

foreign-emplo...

foreign-emplo...

37:1

33:12

36:19

forfeited 47:22
forgot 13:1
format 13:10
former 8:11,11
forms 10:2
formulation

10:7,22

forth 18:15

19:21

forward 38:8
found 4:9 10:11

31:20 42:2,2
four 28:12 41:5

49:24

four-part 21:20
frameworks

free-standing

26:9

29:3

friend 7:5
friends 32:10
Fruit 16:16
full 11:19
function 5:19
27:10 51:21

G

G 3:1
gap-filling 23:2
gee 44:24
gender 30:19
general 1:21
42:5 50:4

generally 19:15
generous 22:4
gentlemen 36:3
getting 11:11
Ginsburg 5:13
10:18 12:23
13:4 15:13
18:8 22:3 29:4
29:8 32:14
41:22 42:21
43:23 44:2,15
46:9 47:9,21
48:7

give 10:1 23:15
25:1 44:18,19
51:24

given 14:13,24
40:19 43:24
44:13 53:23
gives 38:8 41:6
Glass 11:8 23:9
go 10:25 22:25
31:13 32:19
40:16,17 41:3
42:13 45:2,5,8
52:15

goes 23:18 25:8

28:15 38:23
41:13 45:10,11
45:11

going 14:10
25:17 29:9
36:3 40:10,11

40:14,20,21
41:9 42:6
43:15,17,18
47:24 50:5
good 37:11
Government
28:13 31:3
43:8 47:2,4
government's
30:24 31:15
47:5

granted 50:5
gravamen 13:13
Griggs 34:21
35:3 51:19
ground 18:11
grounded 13:23

13:25

grounds 6:9
group 9:16 51:1
guess 45:6
H
half 46:7
happened 45:5

47:25 52:5
happens 3:17
harbor 44:24
hard 16:14

26:20

harder 5:24

7:24

harmonizes

28:10

Hazen 43:12
head 14:18 38:2

hear 3:3 31:23

38:17

48:7

heard 36:20
44:10 48:9
heavily 9:15
36:11 51:12
heavy 38:16
held 43:4,6,10

49:21

help 27:14

highly 43:12
history 10:12

34:25

holding 49:6
Honor 31:21
hope 38:22
Hoyle 45:1
human 42:15,24

44:20,21
hurdle 35:1
hypothetical
3:22 37:25

I

idea 16:12 50:6
identical 5:8
identified 32:5
Identify 41:3
illegal 36:23
immediate 42:4
immediately

25:15

immune 43:7
impact 3:16
8:18 9:20
11:17 15:14,17
16:5,8,10 21:8
21:11 22:10
23:3 26:13
28:21 29:13,17
30:4 34:3 35:9
35:13,14 36:9
36:10,10,14
37:5 38:25
50:8 51:15,20
53:6

impacts 18:3
implement

40:14

18:22

implementati...

implicitly 33:21
implies 43:14
important 3:11

10:5

imposed 13:17
13:25 38:15

59

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

inartfully 15:18

intentional 11:7

impossible
13:15,24
impression

10:22

23:22

34:4

52:10

incongruity

incorrect 50:9

incorrectly 47:7
indicates 14:1
indication 10:9

15:25

indications 6:17
individual 15:19

20:23 21:5

individual's 8:7

20:9,11,24

industry 42:20
inference 31:1

51:24

inferences 34:23
information

informational

14:24

15:2

innocent 22:19
inquiries 21:11
inquiry 5:14
18:5 28:17
29:3

insert 24:5
insistence 16:16
instances 7:8

34:22

instruct 53:9
instructed 47:19

instruction 48:4

48:6

53:13

instructions
44:12 52:11
53:1,4

intend 24:7
intended 6:21
6:23 10:16

52:2

intent 6:18
16:23 21:8
34:3

51:20,24

interchangeably

39:18

interests 14:3
interpret 19:1
23:23 24:18
interpretation

10:6 23:24
24:23 29:10

interpreted

24:19

introduced

18:14 19:21

invidious 34:25
invitation 43:9
involved 48:12
issue 35:15 36:1

46:18 49:2
52:15 53:17,21

issues 14:20

J

Jackson 4:5
Jacobs 46:10,13
job-performa...

41:7

joint 44:13
Joseffer 1:20 2:5

17:11,12,16
18:25 19:11,14
19:20 20:13
22:13 23:17
24:21 25:5
26:5,11

judge 36:3 46:10
46:13 47:19,21
48:1 53:9

judgment 15:9

42:25 43:6
44:20 48:19
49:1,18,19
judgments

41:20

juries 27:15
jury 31:21,24
45:16,18,19
47:19 48:5,7
53:1,9,18,21
Justice 1:21 3:3
3:9,22 4:15,21
5:1,13 7:5 8:5
8:10 10:18
11:23 12:1,5
12:18,23 13:4
13:9 14:5,12
15:13 16:4
17:10,16 18:8
18:19 19:4,9
19:12,18 20:6
22:3 23:13
24:17,25 25:12
26:2,6,7 27:3,7
28:16 29:4,8
29:21 31:5,8
31:12,13 32:3
32:7,14,25
33:19 34:15,18
35:11,21,23
36:9,13,24
37:14,18,22
38:22 39:8
41:22 42:21
43:23 44:2,15
45:4,16 46:9
46:18 47:9,10
47:18,21 48:7
48:16 49:8,23
50:10,18 51:2
51:6 52:6,12
52:19 53:8,12
53:16 54:8

justifiable 21:14

42:11

justification
21:18,23,24
22:1 23:6
33:16 37:6
38:21 39:3,15
40:2 52:23

justified 35:5

49:4

justify 41:17

K

K 1:18 2:3,11

3:7 50:1
KAPL 1:8
keep 19:15

35:12

Kennedy 3:22
4:15,21 5:1
11:23 12:1,5
12:18 13:9
14:5 18:19
19:4 25:13
26:6 39:8

KEVIN 1:18 2:3

2:11 3:7 50:1

key 22:22
kind 10:15

16:17,21 40:13
kinds 7:15 17:1
Knolls 1:7 3:4
know 6:22 14:19
15:6 24:20,25
25:1 33:13
36:6,20 38:2,4
38:11 44:24
52:25

known 19:15
knows 10:6

48:16

L
lab 40:6
Labor 15:23

24:1

3:5

Laboratory 1:8

ladies 36:3
language 5:7,8
6:5,5,11 7:2,4
9:1,5,23 15:21
18:14 19:22
24:6 31:6,9
34:1

large 29:19
law 13:3 16:4,19
19:19 33:13,17
42:15 53:23,24

law's 10:13
layering 6:2
learn 41:11
leave 3:20 35:14
left 5:18 6:7 8:3
legal 45:8 50:4
legislative 6:18
10:12 23:20

legitimate 27:22

38:9

lens 25:10
lesser 35:19
let's 32:15 35:25
37:24,24 38:3
liability 6:12,15

8:14 11:20
17:21 18:2,6
21:8 26:15
28:18 29:17
30:4 31:19
54:4

liberal 14:24
lift 38:1,12,16
light 4:22 25:3

41:2 49:5

limitations 35:5
limiting 9:6
lists 18:9
logically 20:25

25:18

long 6:16 53:4
look 5:12 8:25

9:5

looked 28:2 42:6
looks 4:12
lot 23:2
lower 22:17
lowered 8:2

M

main 18:18
making 5:24

22:4,12

60

Alderson Reporting Company

management

management's

manager 44:7

42:5

41:21

44:16

managers 41:13

41:15,19

manual 41:12
Mary's 31:21
mathematical

matrix 41:16

42:23

42:19

matter 1:14 14:7

14:17 19:1
21:9 25:12
54:11

matters 21:10
maxim 19:10
McDonnell

27:13

Meacham 1:3

3:4

mean 5:21 10:17
14:13 18:2,25
19:14 25:6,14
26:13 42:22
45:11 47:12
48:1,10 51:3,3
51:5

meaning 5:10

16:6 34:2

means 13:11,15
20:7,10 25:2
30:13 32:22
33:7 39:17,19

meant 16:8
mechanical

42:23

men 10:24 11:11
mentioned 10:3
mentioning 9:22
merely 32:4
met 30:20
middle 13:6
mind 35:12

Official - Subject to Final Review

49:12 52:7

minutes 49:24
mission 40:19

41:2

missions 40:13
mistake 48:12
mistaken 29:15
misunderstan...

34:8

mitigate 15:4
modest 11:22
modification

modifications

6:23

7:21

modifies 20:13

20:13,15,19,25

modify 20:18
moment 16:15
Montalvo 45:14
mutual 48:11

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
narrow 3:12
narrower 7:7

30:5,5,7

national 20:11

30:9

Navy 40:19

41:15

necessary 4:16

4:19,21,23
8:13 28:18
35:17 52:20
necessity 5:15
5:17,21 22:6
22:18 23:12
39:6,9,16,23
46:6,11,12,14
47:12,13,24
48:9,15 52:14

need 21:25

24:20 30:20
38:11 40:15
41:3

negate 8:10

negates 9:20
negating 8:11
negation 50:7
negative 25:24
26:3,8 34:11

negatively 28:23

30:19

neither 11:7

48:3

neutral 9:10,11
11:9,16 14:6
29:12 34:12,13
36:5 39:3
51:12

neutralize 28:6
never 7:3 15:14

53:18

new 40:13,19
41:11 42:14

night 11:10
nondiscrimin...

4:2

nondiscrimin...

27:22 38:9

nonpersuasion

3:19

noscitur 19:10
notice 23:19
notwithstandi...

30:25

nuclear 40:7
number 48:20

50:19,20

numbers 41:22

42:3 45:1,3

O
O 2:1 3:1
objection 9:25

16:16

objective 16:3
39:24 44:8,11
44:12

objectives 46:17
obligation 49:2

50:7

occupy 40:20

occurred 27:16
odd 13:8
odds 26:25
oh 14:17
Okay 37:25
old 33:25 34:16

34:24 35:3
36:11,21,25
37:5 38:6

older 3:16 8:19

9:15 38:3,3
41:7 42:16
50:25 51:9,13
once 5:16 14:14

23:2 24:19
26:12 31:15
35:24

one's 30:19,19
opening 39:12
operative 19:19
opinion 29:21
opponents 48:4
opportunities
9:12 51:13
opposed 9:18
opposite 31:20
opposition

45:24

oral 1:14 2:2 3:7

17:12 27:5
order 4:20,23

5:10 7:24
27:14,21 37:6
39:23 41:18

ordinarily 25:23

53:20

ordinary 9:24

origin 20:12

10:8

30:9

ought 15:9

26:20 45:13

outset 4:22
overall 41:20
overcome 35:2

P

P 1:24 2:8 3:1

27:5

page 2:2 8:25
9:4,5 20:21
48:23

pages 45:23
paid 11:11 40:21
Paper 43:12
paradigm 27:14

28:3 38:18
42:20 45:2
parcel 29:2
part 20:17 21:21

29:2,5,9,19
53:2

particular 10:7

19:1 35:13
particularly
15:22 50:5
parties 25:23

48:15

parts 38:15,16
party 3:18 15:3
passed 53:18
pay 10:19,20,22
10:24,25 23:8

paying 11:10
people 9:12

34:24,24 35:1
35:3 36:21,23
37:1,5 38:3,4
40:20,21,25
41:24

percentage

43:20

perfect 12:21
34:24 40:5
perform 5:20
period 35:10
person 14:18,21
persuade 26:24
persuasion 4:17

12:2,3 13:1
17:20 18:13
19:5 22:7,22
25:14 31:1
persuasive

61

Alderson Reporting Company

32:21

perverse 30:24
petition 45:21
petitioner 39:13

39:20 43:4

Petitioners 1:5
1:19,23 2:4,7
2:12 3:8 17:15
21:20 28:12
48:23 49:6
50:2

Petitioner's

phrase 19:23

35:23

24:14

phrased 29:8
phrasing 12:16
place 8:3 25:13
25:15,16 54:4

placed 14:8
plaintiff 5:25

9:17,21 11:16
11:18 14:17
22:5 25:25
26:12 27:17,25
28:24 29:23
34:9 35:7 37:8
38:12 39:4
47:7 49:3 50:7

plaintiffs 7:21

8:2 11:8 46:15
47:1

plaintiff's 7:1
36:6 39:21
41:18 46:3

plan 12:7
plant 36:21
play 7:9
plead 49:8,9
pleaded 48:2

49:11,12
please 3:10
17:17 27:8
40:24

plenty 34:22
plural 21:3
plurality 29:21

Official - Subject to Final Review

33:4,6,8 52:3
prohibition 7:7
prohibits 28:22
prongs 22:2
proof 3:17 6:13
7:4 11:7 15:3
27:24 28:5,6
31:17,24,25
32:17 34:21
42:9 49:3,6
50:6

proper 14:7
proposal 30:25

31:4,15

proposed 53:1
proposition

protected 21:13

18:24

21:17

protection 30:11
prove 7:24

25:24 26:3,8
27:25 28:24
32:18 34:10
35:17 37:9
43:16 46:4,15
47:12 50:8
proven 46:24

52:13

proves 29:23,24
providing 7:17

10:5

proving 26:2

35:19 39:5,21
47:6 48:15,22
provision 3:13

4:12,24 5:3 9:1
10:16 12:17
17:23,24 20:4
22:4 29:20
30:2 32:13
42:17 46:24
50:16

provisions 8:24

19:19 32:15
35:25

purpose 33:25

34:16 51:4,22
51:23

purposes 33:10
pursuant 23:20
put 23:7 25:14
25:16,18 33:2
33:2 52:12,17

putting 5:23
15:3 24:2
p.m 54:10
Q

quality 35:15
question 3:12,16

3:19 6:7,10
7:23 12:14
15:10 16:17,19
16:19,22 17:7
22:14,21 23:23
26:17 27:15
28:15,25 29:18
32:4 38:23
43:2 45:8,12
50:4

questions 5:12

14:22 17:1
50:11 52:5
quite 4:4,10

6:11 8:17,18
8:21 10:5
30:23 34:6
quota 44:24

R

R 3:1
race 7:11 20:11

27:19 28:7
30:9,15,17,19

raised 52:9
raises 34:11
raising 53:21
range 27:11
rank 41:5
ratings 41:8
reach 9:16
reactor 40:7
read 15:17

point 7:6 10:15
11:21 12:14,23
13:5 16:18
18:8 19:2 21:6
22:22 26:16
33:20 34:9
35:21,22,23
42:18 43:11
44:15 48:19
53:25

pointed 7:13
43:8 45:20
points 9:23
policy 25:12
Pooler 47:21

48:1

position 15:16

16:1 24:6
47:11,15

possesses 14:23
possession 13:20

14:11

possible 8:17,21
post 5:22
potential 30:3
pounds 38:2
Power 1:7 3:4
practice 3:14

4:13,14 5:9 7:1
7:17 8:6,21 9:4
9:6,10,11,15
11:9,17 16:21
18:4 20:15,19
20:20,22 21:10
21:14 25:22
26:19,23,25
32:5 35:13,15
50:15,16,18,19
51:8,12,16
52:20 53:5

prepare 41:16
presented 43:2
presents 3:11
press 49:2
presumption
27:23 28:5
30:16,20,23
31:19,23 34:12

presumptively
19:16 26:14
pretext 5:19
prevail 53:4,14
pre-1991 5:22
prima 27:18

31:18 35:8,24
36:4 38:24
51:23

principal 9:25

31:2

35:1

prior 9:4 28:10

probably 19:13
problem 5:14

22:3 27:1 31:3

problematic

problems 19:6

procedural

10:23

34:21

18:21

proceeded 53:2
process 25:6

45:2

production 4:16

11:23 12:6
13:1 14:15
19:6 22:7
26:16 27:20
28:6 30:21
38:25

practices 21:3
26:18 28:22
52:24

precisely 17:23

preconceptions

31:20

35:4

prohibit 28:20

28:21,22

prohibited 5:4,5

17:25 18:14
19:23 28:1
31:6,14 32:2
32:10,19,22,23

62

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

16:14 22:1,8
34:1

readily 5:17
reading 9:24

15:22

real 24:10
really 8:13 15:8

16:8 39:16
42:11 45:8

reason 9:18 12:8
14:16,20 15:3
21:19 27:22
34:3 38:9 52:1
reasonable 3:13
3:15,24 4:1,11
5:16 7:9 8:8,22
9:2 10:21
17:22 18:5
20:2,7,14
21:25 22:16
23:25 24:23
26:4,19,19,23
26:25 28:17
29:1,20 30:12
32:12 37:7
38:10,13 40:4
43:5,16 46:12
46:19,23,24
47:6,16,22
48:2,5,8,13
49:14 50:17
51:17 52:8
53:5

reasonableness
3:18 4:12 6:8
13:19 14:11
16:20 22:17
25:21 26:21
35:19 39:10
45:13 47:13
48:22 49:5
52:6,15,17
53:2

reasonably

25:13

reasons 14:20
25:19 37:11

rebut 52:23
REBUTTAL

2:10 50:1

recognize 10:10

23:21

recognized 7:14

23:2 30:8,22

recognizes

33:17

redid 46:10
redo 42:13
reduce 40:12
reduced 41:2
reference 29:19
refers 4:14 8:23
9:2,9 20:21,22

reflect 30:3
reflects 22:19

32:25

regard 18:4
regarding 52:5
regardless 34:3

45:7

regulation 15:17
15:19,24 16:14
23:18,21,23,25
24:2,19,19,23
25:1,2,2,7,9
46:21,22 47:5
53:25

regulations

23:16 24:13
48:13

rejected 29:10
rejigger 43:19
related 23:5
relevant 52:16
relies 22:16
religion 20:11

relying 44:20

30:9

54:6

remainder 17:9
remaining 49:25
repeatedly

43:22

represent 46:6

reprinted 44:13
require 7:4

14:14

required 41:10
requirement

8:17,17 38:14
39:3 50:12,13

requires 11:7

37:1

research 40:6
reserve 17:9
resolve 27:15
resolved 29:18

29:19

respect 21:5
22:25 32:9
48:2

respects 48:1
Respondents
1:25 2:9 8:1
10:14 27:6
52:7

Respondent's
9:25 16:16

responsibilities

41:21

restrict 51:12
result 31:20
resulted 11:11
results 43:20
resumes 27:24
retirement

10:13

retreat 44:23
reverse-discri...

42:17

review 41:17
43:7 44:5,6

reviewing 49:5
revised 23:10
RFOA 4:24 5:3

6:14 9:1,20
12:16 30:2
50:6,16
RIF 45:2
RIF'd 41:24
right 18:10

19:11,20 26:5
28:9 31:14
32:6,8 42:14
42:19 45:7
47:18 53:19
rights 10:14
23:5 42:15

rise 51:24
risk 3:19
ROBERTS 3:3

7:5 14:12
17:10 19:18
23:13 24:17,25
26:2 27:3
36:24 45:4
49:23 54:8

room 6:4
row 18:10 19:16
rule 12:14,15
17:19 27:23
28:3

rulemaking
23:20 24:4

rules 10:6
Russell 1:18 2:3

2:11 3:6,7,9
4:4,19,23 5:2
5:13 6:1 7:12
8:9,15 11:4,25
12:3,12,20
13:3,7,14 14:9
15:1,15 16:9
49:24 50:1,3
50:22 51:5,7
52:16,21 53:11
53:13,19
S
S 2:1 3:1
sad 30:10
safe 44:24,24
safety 14:19,22
sake 32:15
sandwich 32:20

35:7

sandwiched
12:24 32:14

sandwiching

6:18

satisfied 12:7
satisfy 4:6
saying 12:7,10

17:24 22:8
33:24 36:10
37:15,18,19
42:12

says 33:5,15,22

36:2,16,19
37:25 38:10,13
39:13 51:3,14

scale 41:5
SCALIA 19:9

19:12

scheme 3:23
scope 7:7
second 18:8 20:4
21:13 22:2,25
24:4 25:23
28:8 30:11
43:2,4,6,9
45:22 48:21,25
48:25 49:4,17
49:20

seconds 38:3
section 4:7 5:4,6

16:21 33:5
41:1 50:13,14

sections 33:6

see 15:22 23:14

40:18

35:20

segregating 9:6
seniority 10:14

41:6

sense 3:21 6:6
11:6 12:14,19
12:21 13:18,21
15:9 19:24
28:14

sentence 6:19
18:15 21:2
31:10 46:8

separate 19:21

22:21 47:16,17

63

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

48:4

separated 18:15
separately 49:13
serves 51:21
set 18:15 19:21
38:19 41:18
44:5 45:3

SETH 1:24 2:8

27:5

setting 6:14
settled 17:18
sex 9:18 10:20
11:1,3 20:11
27:19 30:9,15
30:17 47:23

shift 11:10,10,12

11:22

shifts 27:20
31:17 39:1
shop 38:16
show 4:7,8 8:14
9:11 11:5,13
11:16 12:11
13:12 26:18
28:7,18 33:11
38:24 39:22
50:14,16 51:8
52:22

showed 11:9

42:10 53:5,14
showing 9:14,19

9:20 10:15
11:19 35:12
37:12 47:8
50:25 52:3,23

shown 22:9
shows 35:8,9

side 32:11 43:16

39:19

47:3

silence 31:22
silent 3:20
similar 10:15

11:6,15

similarly 36:18
simple 26:11
simply 3:17

16:18 28:18,23
45:5,11,25
50:9,14 51:23
simultaneously

54:3

single 3:11

18:15 44:7,7
singular 21:5
skill 41:5,9
skills 40:25 41:3
41:8,11 44:17

sky 25:16
Smith 4:9 5:7
7:13 16:22
20:17 21:6
29:19 43:11
45:13,15
sociis 19:10
sole 51:22
Solicitor 1:20
somebody 30:10

42:16

sorry 20:8 24:17
sort 17:7 23:15
39:12 42:15
sounded 29:9
sounds 5:24

42:23

Souter 33:19

34:15,18 35:23
36:9,13 37:14
37:18,22 50:10
51:2,6

Souter's 35:21
special 14:3
specific 9:19
15:12 20:4
45:3

specifically 7:22

16:13 21:18
specified 23:12

49:13

split 44:25
spoke 15:14
spoken 23:6
St 31:21
stage 23:6

standard 21:19

22:1,15,17
26:22 38:21
43:15

standards 4:10
stark 42:3,3
startling 41:23
States 1:1,15,22
2:6 17:13 40:7
statistical 31:16

31:25 32:4
34:10,11 35:8
37:12

statistically 38:4

50:19

statistics 36:20
statute 3:19 6:3
6:11 7:20 9:23
10:12 12:15,15
12:18,20 13:17
14:1,6 15:7
17:22 18:20
19:1,25 20:20
22:14 26:1
31:9 32:10
35:10

statutes 5:10

10:7 11:6 23:5
23:7

statutory 6:5

13:10

step 9:14 21:24
27:17 30:14
34:9 38:20
39:20 45:25,25
46:2

Stephens 38:23
steps 28:12,13
Stevens 29:21
31:5,8,12,13
32:3,7,25
35:11 45:16
46:18 47:10,18
48:16 49:8
52:6,12,19
53:8,12,16

stocking 38:15

strain 8:5
strange 6:20

16:6

strength 38:7
strikingly 42:3
strong 6:17

30:16,20 38:12
strongest 47:14
strongly 9:23

51:25

structure 6:2
27:10 32:9
subject 27:18
32:23 33:8
53:6

subjective 43:6

44:8

subjectivity

43:24

submarine 40:7
submission

submitted 54:9

49:19

54:11

subsection

17:25 18:3,7,9
19:2 20:1,2
21:16,22 32:13
41:1 48:13
substantial

34:10 38:5,6

substantive
16:19 24:8
47:8

substitution

10:19

subunits 40:18
sued 42:7
suffer 51:1
suffered 28:24

37:9 50:8

sufficient 4:6,8

11:12,20

suggest 8:1,12
suggesting 11:2

50:10

suggestion

64

Alderson Reporting Company

51:19

suggests 52:10
suits 33:10
supported 26:19
supporting 1:23

2:7 17:15

supports 16:12
suppose 19:9
Supreme 1:1,15
sure 18:19 19:8

31:12 41:19

surplusage 20:5
surprised 17:6

23:14

T

T 2:1,1
take 13:5 35:25
37:24,24 43:18
44:15

taken 33:1 46:9
takes 24:11
talking 16:13
talks 21:2
tell 31:24 36:3
telling 6:25
tells 21:21 24:18
tend 13:20
tends 9:11 51:8
term 15:20 16:7

24:12,13

terms 4:25 5:3
15:19 16:10
42:21,24

test 5:4,23 6:7

8:3 21:20
22:18 26:12
28:4 38:20
43:13 46:1
47:17 52:2

testified 42:12

43:19

testimony 42:20

44:3,10 46:7

tests 6:2
text 14:1,5 25:17
textual 22:24

Thank 17:10
27:2,3 49:22
49:23 54:7,8
theory 29:17

thing 6:20 19:8

43:8

37:16

things 12:24
24:11 33:4
38:12,16 40:15

think 6:1,24

8:15 9:23 10:3
10:4 11:15,18
12:4,12,13,16
12:18,20 13:7
13:14,15,18
14:10 15:6,7
15:18 16:9,12
17:5 20:6
22:13,13,22
23:15,24 25:6
28:9,16 30:3
35:21 38:22
39:11,16 45:10
50:10,22 51:7
52:1,1,21
53:19,20,23
54:5

thinks 6:4
third 6:24 13:2
22:2,25 24:9
36:18

thought 6:12
24:18 43:24
three 6:22 18:9

18:13,20,20
19:16,20 28:11
35:25 38:20
39:20 45:25
46:2

three-part 28:4

38:20

three-step 27:14
throws 24:10
time 8:7,21 17:9
24:7 45:21,22
45:23,24 46:22

Official - Subject to Final Review

52:25 54:2

times 38:2
Title 5:9 7:3,7

7:25 8:2 11:20
22:5,15,18
23:10 29:18
told 6:16 40:19
top 5:23
total 22:10
track 46:11
traditional

10:13 12:17
trained 44:6
training 14:20
14:21 41:12
44:18

trains 41:13
treat 6:5
treatment 9:8

10:13 15:20,21
16:5,7,11 24:6
24:9,13,14,15
27:16,19,21
28:21 29:12,22
29:24 30:1
33:24 34:19
tremendously

16:6

trial 44:9 46:19
47:11 52:18,25
tried 46:3,14,19

46:20 52:6

tries 35:17
true 4:15 15:1

19:8 48:24
51:14

try 52:23
turn 9:4 16:15
32:11 41:24
two 6:19 8:23
11:6 12:24
18:11 19:13
21:11,15 28:12
32:14

two-part 26:12
two-step 25:6

U

ultimate 37:9
ultimately 12:13

13:23 15:6
44:20

unacknowled...

unconscious

34:23

43:25

44:4

34:23

24:10

20:20

uncross-exam...

underlying
20:15,18

understand 5:21

5:23 22:14
35:22 47:10
understanding

understands

24:21

37:8

understood 25:3
undiscovered

undoubtedly

unemployment

unit 40:8 41:1
United 1:1,15,22
2:6 17:13 40:7

units 40:18
universe 3:23

26:9

unlawful 3:15
5:9 6:25 7:16
16:20 33:5
35:17

unreasonable
4:3,8 12:11
13:12 43:17

unreasonable...

unrebutted

7:4

42:20

34:23

unreconciled

unusual 24:5

53:16

upper 38:7
urged 47:4
use 8:15 16:11
24:14 39:17
40:4

V

v 1:6
value 10:5
verdict 45:17,18

45:19

versus 3:4
view 4:19 11:18
19:22,25 23:17
25:7,9

VII 5:9 7:3,7,25
8:2 11:20 22:5
22:15,18 23:10
29:18

violation 4:7

5:11

W

waive 53:24
waived 53:22
want 13:10 19:4

27:9 28:12
29:15 44:22,23

wanted 46:5
wants 28:13
war 40:9,13
Wards 4:6 5:6
5:11 6:6 7:21
7:23 8:3 9:14
11:19 21:21
22:2,23 23:1
25:15,16 28:2
30:15 35:8
38:19,23 39:20
45:19,25 46:1
46:2 47:2,3,20
48:6 50:22,23
51:2,24 53:14

Washington

1:11,18,21,24

wasn't 25:18

39:5,23 40:3
46:6,18 54:3
Waxman 1:24
2:8 27:4,5,7
29:4,6,14 31:5
31:7,10,13
32:6,8 34:6,17
34:20 35:11,20
36:12,16 37:3
37:17,21,24
39:11 42:1
43:1 44:2
45:10,18 46:13
46:21 47:15,19
47:25 48:10,18
49:11 52:10
way 8:1 9:13
10:4,8 12:21
13:17 19:7,24
25:14,17 29:8
35:6 36:5 37:4
38:19 39:6,6
39:22,23 40:16
41:23 42:22
45:3 46:4,5,16

weak 30:23

33:20

weaker 30:25
Wednesday

1:12

weeks 46:7
weigh 13:19
weight 10:1

51:10,10,11
weight-lifting

8:16

went 17:2 42:10
weren't 16:12
We'll 3:3 42:13
We've 45:1
wide 27:11
willing 41:10
wins 39:24
wiped 38:5
women 10:25
11:11 35:2
38:3

65

Alderson Reporting Company

word 39:14,16

48:8

words 14:15

16:5 19:14,18
20:20 33:7
34:15 38:18
39:17 51:2
work 11:12

22:24 26:10
36:23 40:10,12
43:21 44:25
worker 42:16
workers 3:16
8:19,20 9:15
41:7 50:25
51:1,9,13

works 11:8 35:7
world 44:19
wouldn't 9:8
19:7 43:19
wow 44:25
wrench 24:10
wrinkle 24:10
written 12:21
13:16 21:3,4
23:22

wrong 32:1

35:22 45:25
46:11 47:21
48:1,17
wrote 6:3
X

x 1:2,10 33:5

Y

Y 33:5
York 42:14

Z

Z 33:5

0

06-1505 1:6 3:4

1

1 18:9 20:3
21:17 36:1

Official - Subject to Final Review

41:5

1a 9:5 20:21
10 38:2 41:5
11:15 1:16 3:2
12:15 54:10
16-point 44:19
1625.7(d) 47:5
17 2:7
18 42:17
1964 26:1
1991 7:20 30:6

2

2 9:5 20:1,16

21:16,23 22:24

2008 1:12
23 1:12
27 2:9

3
3 2:4 8:25
30 38:2 41:24
301 27:24 28:3
31 41:24
4

4 45:23
4(a)(2) 4:7 5:4,6

6:5 16:21,24
50:13,14 51:8
52:3

40 41:25
5

5 45:23
50 2:12 38:2
50-pound 37:25
53 48:23
6

6 21:6
60/40 44:25
65 36:23
7

7 45:23

66

Alderson Reporting Company

