Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

 v. 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
        
PHILLIP MORRIS USA INC., 
:
          
 Petitioner 
:
                       
:  No. 07-1216 
                
MAYOLA WILLIAMS, 
: 
         
PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE 
: 
       
OF THE ESTATE OF JESSE D. 
: 
             
WILLIAMS, DECEASED. 
: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 Washington, D.C.
 Wednesday, December 3, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:02 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ., Chicago, Ill.; on behalf  of

 the Petitioner. 

ROBERT S. PECK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the

 Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


ROBERT S. PECK, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

27


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

54


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:02 a.m.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument 

first this morning in Case 07-1216, Philip Morris v. 
Williams.

 Mr. Shapiro.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, 

and may it please the Court:

 We are here today because the Oregon court 
failed to follow this Court's directions on remand and 
because the ground it gave is not adequate to show a 
forfeiture of due process rights.

 This -- this Court vacated after finding 

that the Oregon Supreme Court applied the wrong 
constitutional standard, and it remanded with directions 
to apply the standard that the Court laid out.  But the 
Oregon court didn't do that.  It never even addressed 
the constitutional issue.  The Oregon court, of course, 
refused to follow this Court's direction because it 
believed there were mistakes in another paragraph in our 
instruction request dealing with what the court referred 
to as "unrelated issues."

 But that isn't what this Court mandated. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

And the specific forfeiture theory adopted here for the 
first time after nine years of appellate litigation is 
completely inadequate to avoid this mandate.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Shapiro, we are 

dealing with a State supreme court, and our bottom line 
always reads "for further proceedings not inconsistent 
with this opinion."  And it was my understanding that a 
State court can resolve a case on an alternate State law 
ground, if there is such a ground in the case.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Yes, Your Honor.  We believe 
that this disposition is quite inconsistent with what 
the Court mandated.  The Court heard arguments in this 
case about the "correct in all respects" rule, but it 
still mandated an application of the constitutional 
standard, including the prohibition on punishment for 
harm to non-parties, and that standard simply was never 
applied.  We say that is inconsistent with this Court's 
opinion.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But it seems to me the 

problem with the argument is that to say it is 
inconsistent with the opinion we implicitly have to say 
that the Oregon Supreme Court has to confront State law 
issues in a certain sequence, and that if it does not do 
so those issues are waived, as it were, not only by the 
court but by the party who raised it.  And the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

difficulty, I think, with your position here is that on 
the assumption, which I do make, that the -- that the 
issue, "correct in all respect" issue, was properly 
raised by the other side, if we accept your position, we 
in effect are saying the other side is not going to have 
an opportunity to argue that before the Oregon Supreme 
Court.  And that's, it seems to me, kind of a steep hill 
for you to climb.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, we don't say that the 

court can never adopt a State law standard after remand 
from this Court, but we say that this disposition is 
inconsistent --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  I know you are saying that 
but why -- why does the disposition that you are asking 
for not entail what I just said, and that is, in effect 
you cut off the claim by a party raised before the 
Oregon Supreme Court, not considered by the Oregon 
Supreme Court, and you cut off that claim simply because 
the Oregon Supreme Court chose to approach the issues in 
the case in a certain sequence?  What business do we 
have to do that?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, because the preservation 

issue was debated before this Court and it adopted a 
specific order here saying on remand now consider the 
constitutional standard, which is the prohibition on --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  I know the language that 

you are referring to.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But the referring to that 

language simply skips over the issue that I am trying to 
raise.  Isn't there a problem that we should be 
concerned with if we accept your position in cutting off 
the claim made by one party to the case which was never 
heard by the Oregon Supreme Court?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, Your Honor, this is very 

similar to what occurred in the Sullivan case in this 
Court, where the issue of preservation was debated 
before this Court at the cert stage in the cert papers, 
and the Court said:  We sub silentio passed on the 
adequacy of the State ground when we CDRed the case.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Didn't -- did the 

Court -- suppose the -- what is it called -- "correct in 
all respects" had been raised and decided by the Oregon 
Supreme Court in the first instance.  Suppose it had 
said, well, we don't have to deal with whether 
Instruction 34 was right or wrong in this particular, 
because it was wrong in other respects.  Suppose that 
had been the first time around what the Oregon Supreme 
Court said.  Would that have offended any Federal due 
process?  Would that have been an appropriate 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

disposition for the Oregon Supreme Court to make?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, that takes us to our 

second and principal argument, which is that that ground 
would not be adequate under this Court's criteria for 
adequacy.  And we say that there are really three 
reasons why that would not be an adequate ground for 
forfeiting this constitutional right.  It's an ambush. 
It was a surprise ruling that we couldn't anticipate. 
It is an exercise in futility because, even if we 
submitted a perfect instruction that complied with that 
rule, we would have been rejected anyway by the trial 
court that simply believed that this instruction wasn't 
required by the --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Isn't the place to make 

that argument in the Oregon Supreme Court?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, no.  The Oregon Supreme 

--

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Wouldn't it have been 

appropriate to -- to hear the -- the issue that they are 
raising and for you to make the reply that you have just 
made?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Your Honor, this Court has 

said repeatedly that adequacy is a Federal law question 
for this Court to decide.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  I realize it's a Federal 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

law question and in approaching that question, I keep 
asking the question which I think I have now put to you 
three times and have yet to hear an answer on the merits 
on:  Why is it appropriate for us to have a rule here 
that cuts off the right of a party that properly raised 
an issue in the Oregon Supreme Court and has yet to be 
heard on the merits in the Oregon Supreme Court?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, there are two reasons. 

First under the adequacy decisions of this Court, 
including Lee v. Kemna, if it takes years and years 
after the trial to articulate a forfeiture rule like 
this that counts heavily against the adequacy of the 
State ground.  This Court held that in Lee v. Kemna very 
recently.

 And then secondly, this is a point that was 

argued to this Court four separate times now and when 
the Court remanded with explicit directions to apply the 
constitutional standard that's something that had to be 
done on remand.  The Court did not invite the lower 
court to get into the question of whether this request 
was made.  The Court found that the request was made.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Maybe -- maybe this Court 

insufficiently appreciated the significance of the issue 
which is now before us.  And I still want to know, is 
there a good reason on the merits why it is fair for us 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to cut off the right of the other side to raise an issue 
that they raise or to argue an issue that they raised in 
a timely fashion?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Yes, there is a good reason, 

because this is -- adequacy is ultimately a Federal 
question for this Court to decide.  The issue was 
debated here four separate times at great length.  The 
Court remanded for a specific decision by the lower 
court.  That wasn't done.  And if we turn to the 
adequacy doctrine --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Excuse me.  What -- what 

issue was debated here four times?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Whether or not there was an 
adequate State ground because of the "correct in all 
respects" rule.  That was debated in the merits brief, 
in the cert oppositions twice.  It was debated again in 
the cert opposition this time around.  But the Court has 
never accepted it.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But the State court hadn't 

ruled on it at that time.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  That's correct.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  So how do we rule on it as 

a matter of first impression?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, because, Your Honor, the 

Court considered, just as it did in Sullivan, it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

considered these issues in the cert papers and then 
remanded the case for a different issue to be decided by 
the lower court.

 But we don't hesitate from debating the 

adequacy issue.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Did our opinion decide that 

-- that question?  Did our opinion say that that 
question was decided against your opponent?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  No.  What the Court said in 
Sullivan was that it was a sub silentio determination.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How could we have 

determined it when the Oregon Supreme Court itself 
hadn't made any determination?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Because the parties debated 

this extensively in their briefs.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But we don't decide 

questions, particularly questions of State law, that may 
have a Federal check.  But we don't decide them in the 
first instance.

 And there's one point, Mr. Shapiro, that I 
think affects this concern of fairness to the parties 
who raised this "correct in all respects" from the 
beginning.  This Court had not clarified, had it, until 
the Williams case itself, the rule about harm to others. 
In State Farm we were talking about harm to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

nonresidents.  So if I recall correctly, Williams was 
the first time we ever clarified that harm to others 
included people within the same State; is that correct?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Yes.  That's true.
 This -- this, as the Court expressed it, was 
a slight extension of the previous decisions.  But Your 
Honor, if the Court feel that this adequacy issue hasn't 
been dealt with previously by this Court, it's presented 
squarely here.  It is a Federal question, which this 
Court says has to be decided by this Court.  And we 
don't hesitate from --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I suppose one reason 

-- one reason to think it may not have been decided is 
that, unlike the other situations you have discussed, it 
would not have been a bar to our consideration of this 
case the last time because, just as you raise the 
question in your second question presented that whether 
the award complies with due process, we may have thought 
there might have been an adequate and independent State 
ground on a procedural question, but we were going to go 
ahead.  We granted cert on the substantive question on 
whether the damages award was unconstitutional.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, Your Honor, if -- if 

we're not right about the decision resolving the 
adequacy issue already, we're happy to turn to it now 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and address it as we do in our briefs.  This is not an 
adequate State ground under this Court's decisions.  The 
first reason for that is that this is a futile gesture 
that the State court requires of us.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  I want to ask you about 
that.  That's the thrust of your argument:  It would 
have been futile to comply with the specific, drafting a 
perfect -- perfect instruction "correct in all 
respects."  But I have to think the trial -- the record 
is subject to the reading that the trial judge thought 
the issue had already been adequately taken care of, 
rather than it would be an incorrect instruction.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, the trial judge asked, 

is there any authority that requires me to give this 
instruction on harm to non-parties?  And we said, in our 
view it's the BMW case.  And she said, well, if there is 
not an authority right on point I'm not going to give 
this instruction.  She said that very clearly.  So if we 
submitted a separate piece of paper, it would have made 
no difference; and if we had taken out the two mistakes 
--

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Where in the record is the 

portion of the colloquy about the instructions most 
clearly stated in your view, on your side of that issue?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Let's see.  It's the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

instruction conference.  This begins on page 17a, where 
Mr. Beaty starts discussing the second prong of this 
paragraph.  He says -- he quotes the language, and the 
judge -- the judge says:  "Well, I think that that's 
covered by giving an instruction that punitive damages 
are not compensatory."  And he says:  No, no, that is 
not -- "That is not the point of this instruction." 
This is pages 17 and 18a.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But that's exactly the 
point I make.  I think the trial judge was saying, I 
think it's already covered, which is different from 
saying, no matter how you phrase it, I won't give it.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, she said she just 

disagreed with the idea that there should be protection 
against punishment for harm to non-parties.  And she 
said unless there's a case requiring that, I'm not going 
to give that instruction.  And she said --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Didn't she also say that 

she was going to give, and ultimately did give an 
instruction, to the effect that punitive damages are 
punitive, they are not for the compensation of this 
person or any other person, and to -- she then turned to 
Philip Morris's counsel and said:  What about that?  And 
Philip Morris's counsel said okay.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  What he was saying when he 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

said okay was:  I understand your ruling and I'm not 
going to continue to argue a point that I've already 
lost.  But he pressed that point --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  It doesn't sound like much 

of an objection.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, the -- the State courts 

both held -- both of the appellate courts held our 
instruction was rejected.  And this Court said it was 
rejected, too, in its opinion.  And that's exactly 
right.  You can't antagonize the trial judge by arguing 
and arguing after your position has been rejected.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  But -- but the -- the 

problem that I am having at the moment is that they did 
-- from your point of view, is that they -- the other 
side listed 28 cases in which they said the Oregon 
courts have followed this rule that the instruction has 
to be good as a whole.

 Now, I have looked up those 28 cases, and 
they do -- they do say that.  They do say it, or they 
imply it, or they apply it.  They are not completely on 
point, but they are not completely out of point, either. 
And -- and so I suppose what happened is that the judge 
there just looked at this instruction on 32(a).  It 
looks like sort of it's all together.  It really does 
look like it's all together, the (1) and the (2).  And 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

he ran his eye down the page and he said, well, here are 
two other ways in which it's no good, and so that's the 
end of it.  You can't raise your objection.  Maybe you 
should have had four instructions instead of one, but 
you did just have one.

 And under Oregon law, unless every part of 

it is right, the judge is correct in not giving it, even 
if he never mentions the other part.  And that 28 -- it 
does seem as if that's what those 28 cases do say.  So 
what do we say about that?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  The -- the reason we say that 
those 28 cases did not give us reasonable notice that we 
had to submit a separate piece of paper or change 
another paragraph in the instruction request is that 
none of them dealt with a situation where you have 
separately numbered requests --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, I mean -- please, I 
-- I don't want to appear skeptical, but I am.  And --
and that's because I have looked up in some of those 
cases, and then I sort of looked at the -- which doesn't 
-- most of them don't give you the instructions, so it's 
a little hard to say.  But then I looked on page 32(a) 
of this appendix and looked at what your instructions 
looked like.

 And -- and if I were sitting there as a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

judge, I would think, well, gee, that looks like a 
single thing there.  They have it indented, and they 
have a (1) and a (2), and it just looks like it's one 
ball of wax.  So can I really fault this Oregon court 
for just doing what I said?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, I -- I think so, because 

the pattern instruction here told both parties to 
include all their paragraphs pertaining to punitive 
damages in one numbered instruction, 34.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, they had some other 

handbook that says beware of that.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Because you are going to 
run into this rule that says if there is any part of a 
single instruction that is wrong, goodbye, even if the 
trial judge never mentioned it.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  But that handbook came out in 
2006.  And after all, that was a practice tip.  It was 
not a State court ruling saying you had to organize your 
instruction this way.

 We had separate paragraphs, separately 

numbered.  They dealt with different issues.  One was 
the Constitution and the other was the State statute. 
And there's no Oregon case that said that in that 
situation you have to break it out into a separate piece 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of paper.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought the notion was 

one issue, one charge.  And it wasn't in just one 
practice manual.  There were a few cited in the brief 
that the charge should be limited to one issue, one 
point of law.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, the pattern instructions 

told us to put every point pertaining to punitive 
damages in Instruction No. 34.  Both sides did that. 
And the Court was working with plaintiff's instruction, 
taking their --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I mean, it would be pretty 
odd.  Did the person who wrote that read these 28 cases 
or some share thereof?  And if you were going to do that 
-- it wasn't you, I know -- why -- why wouldn't you 
just, if you have one instruction, copy the -- the model 
instruction?  Then you won't make errors in the other 
parts.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, you see, the -- the 

pattern -- the pattern instruction didn't include the 
due process point.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  True, but you could add 

that to the pattern.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  That's what we tried to do, 
and the -- the judge invited us while dealing with the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

other side's instruction to go through this one by one. 
She -- she was asking us:  Now, what's your next 
addition?

 And we -- we got to the due process point, 

and she said:  What is your authority?  And we told her, 
and she said:  I don't think that instruction is 
necessary.

 It was separately argued.  It was separately 

decided by the State courts in the prior decisions, 
decided by this Court as -- as a separate matter, and 
that is exactly how the trial court approached this. 
Her request was to go through this item by item.

 She wasn't taking an all-or-nothing approach 

to this instruction.  She started with plaintiff's 
document and asked what from our menu of additions 
was necessary.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm not speaking of this 
from the point of view -- I mean I -- when I read that 
petition for cert, I thought this is a run- around, and 
I'm not sure that I think that now.  That is, the reason 
is because I put myself in the position of not the trial 
judge.  The person to put yourself in the position of is 
the Oregon Supreme Court justice.  And what he is doing 
is he's reading that instruction.  And -- and what can 
you say in response to what -- what he might have 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

thought?

 He knows this rule.  The rule is if the 

instruction is -- is unfavorable in any part, if it's 
wrong, you are out.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well --
JUSTICE BREYER:  He knows that rule, because 
there have been a lot of cases on it.  And then he reads 
your instruction, and as I looked carefully -- I didn't 
know this the first time when it was here, but he said 
because it's right in paragraph 1 -- I mean it's wrong 
in paragraph 1, where he was wrong -- I don't have to go 
to the rest of it.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Now we send it back, so he 

says:  Okay, now I've got to go to the rest of it.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  You know, Justice Breyer, this 
is very similar to what was at issue in the Flowers case 
which reached this Court.  The Alabama Supreme Court had 
said if you intermix different appeal points in your 
brief, we are not going to consider any of them if there 
are any errors to be found in any of the paragraphs in 
their brief.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But I thought the whole 
thing about -- this is the NAACP case you that you were 
discussing? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. SHAPIRO:  Yes.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- that this was 

something that the Alabama Supreme Court really sprung 
at the last minute, that it was not like this rule. 
There were not 28 cases in the Alabama Supreme Court 
applying the rule.  It seemed to be quite a novel rule.
 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, what -- what the State 
argued there was that for 60 years the "correct in all 
respects" rule was in effect in Alabama, and they cited 
dozens of cases applying it.  But this Court unanimously 
held that that approach was pointless severity.  Even 
though the State supreme court there said, we can't 
disentangle these arguments, it's too complicated, it's 
too much of a burden on the State supreme court, this 
Court unanimously found that was pointless severity. 
And at that point --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  There was a basis for 

questioning the good faith of the court in that case, I 
think.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  And I don't think that's 

true here.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  I -- I -- we don't question 
the good faith of the court, but we say that this is 
pointless severity, a rule that this Court has applied 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

more recently in Lee v. Kemna where there was no issue 
of bad faith.  The Court thought that it was pointlessly 
severe and unnecessarily severe to insist on a perfect 
proposal in that case.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  The best you have come up 

with -- and I think you have researched this pretty 
thoroughly -- and the best you have come up with to find 
a case where they didn't apply the rule is that George 
case, right?  "George," I think, is the name of it.

 And there, there is an alternative ground 

which is that the judge had to -- had to give the 
instruction himself, and it's a criminal case.  And we 
Shepardized it and it has only been cited twice.  And --
and so I'm slightly at sea, to tell you the truth.  And 
-- and what is the standard I'm supposed to use to 
decide whether that State ground is adequate as a matter 
of Federal law or not?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, there is an earlier case 
that is interesting, State v. Brown, which comes several 
years before, and it's cited in our brief.  In that case 
an imperfect instructional request was made, and the 
Court still found that there was a duty to give the 
instruction based on due process.  And the reason was 
that the parties during the charge conference had 
debated the issue.  It was a fair-enough exposition for 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the trial court to understand the need for the charge.

 And here this really is much like the 
Osborne case.  You know, in the Osborne case the 
defendant didn't make any instructional proposal, and 
this Court still reversed and required a new trial with 
the correct instruction.  It said due process required 
that.  And the Court said that we -- that the party had 
sufficiently brought this to the attention of the trial 
judge for Federal adequacy purposes even though no 
instruction was -- was proposed.

 The lawyer there merely moved to dismiss the 

proceeding, never proposed an instruction, but this 
Court required a retrial with a correct set of 
instructions to the jury.  That's an a fortiori case, I 
think; and also the Flowers case, I believe, is a 
fortiori.  There really was a strong and compelling 
State interest there in having the lawyers break their 
arguments up into separate headings and subheadings so 
the appellate court could follow the argument.

 But here there wasn't any burden placed on 
the trial judge at all by our request.  She was going 
through these one by one, and she asked us:  What's your 
next point that you want added?  We proposed it.  It was 
on a silver platter.  She didn't have to retype it.  She 
could have simply read it to the jury in that form.  It 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

didn't have to be edited or amended.  There literally 
was no burden on the trial judge at all.  And so we --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  She didn't get to the --

the other grounds, because I think it was all about that 
paragraph and whether that paragraph was adequate under 
our then precedent.  And I don't think that -- that the 
-- the incorrect portions of the charge that have now --
are now before us were -- were even reached then.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  She did look at the illicit 
profits point.  And she said:  I'm not going to give 
that; that's unnecessary.  She did -- she didn't address 
the "may versus shall" issue because she was working 
with plaintiffs' proposal.  So all -- really she just 
had before her our request for this due process 
instruction.  She analyzed it separately, it was debated 
before her.

 And this is much more specific than what the 

lawyers did in the Osborne case.  They didn't even 
propose an instruction.  We served it up on a silver 
platter.  She could have used it, and indeed there was 
no work for the trial judge at all because she was 
simply telling the lawyers, make this change, make that 
change that we've discussed, so there is zero burden on 
the court.

 And you have to ask in this situation, what 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

is the legitimate State interest that would support this 
massive forfeiture of a very important due process 
right?  The plaintiff says the State interest here is 
that it promotes affirmance of jury verdicts whether or 
not there has been a due process violation.  But think 
about that.  That's hardly a State interest.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  The State interest in the 
rule in general, I take it, is to require the lawyers, 
if they are going to object to the instructions that the 
judge is going to give, to produce an instruction that 
is a correct instruction of the law.  That's -- that's 
why, I guess, they have this rule.
 MR. SHAPIRO:  Oh, yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  And -- and you'd better get 

it right, because if you don't get it right, you're 
going to lose your ability to claim that the judge was 
wrong in refusing to give any part of it.

 Now, if that's the reason they have that 

rule, that would seem to apply as much in this case as 
in any other case.  Why wouldn't it?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, please recall that in 
both Osborne and in the Lee case, there was a general 
State purpose of that kind that supported the rule, but 
the Court said it was an exorbitant or unnecessarily 
severe application of the rule.  And that's what we 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

contend here, that this is exorbitant, it serves no 
legitimate purpose.  It is truly a game of gotcha that 
just nullifies the defendant's due process rights.

 And that precedent I think would be of great 
concern in various fields of law.  This is a rule of law 
that will apply in civil rights cases in the future, 
criminal cases, all sorts of cases.

 So I -- I think if this Court does apply its 
own criteria here, it will see that this is an exercise 
in futility, it was an ambush as a practical matter.  We 
didn't have any reason to think we had to submit this 
again on a separate piece of paper.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Could you just tell me, 

well, why was it an exercise in futility?  That's what I 
don't quite understand.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Oh, because the judge had 
ruled as a matter of substantive law that she wasn't 
going to give this instruction.  It wouldn't matter if 
we separated it.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But she said she thought 
it was already covered.  That's what I -- on that very 
page you pointed me to.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, she -- she said that was 
all she was going to say about the point.  And we said, 
well, that doesn't cover our point, because we want 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

protection against punishment for harm to non-parties. 
And she said:  I'm not going to give that instruction; I 
deny the rest of your request, No. 34.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And where is this 

colloquy?  I mean, we went through the parts, she said I 
think it's covered and it was okay.  You seem to be 
saying more than ws included in that colloquy.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, I -- I think if -- if 
you look at the whole colloquy, that's the gist of it. 
I -- I have paraphrased it, but --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You've made it much 

clearer than it was.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Perhaps --
(Laughter.)
 MR. SHAPIRO:  -- perhaps I did.  But I -- I 
would just point out that in Osborne the lawyer didn't 
make it clear at all.  The lawyer didn't even propose an 
instruction.

 We proposed a good instruction that this 

Court has quoted from emphasizing our language, 
saying -- saying it correctly captures the due process 
principle.  So that is enough to satisfy Federal 
criteria of -- of adequacy, and that is sufficient to 
preserve the point.  There is no dispute that this is 
preserved for appellate purposes in Oregon. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Unless the Court has further questions, I --

I would reserve the balance of our time.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Shapiro.

 Mr. Peck.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT S. PECK

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. PECK:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 This Court's constitutional mandate in this 
case is conditioned in several significant respects, and 
it invites the discretion and judgment of a State court 
that's applying it.  First of all, it says that States 
have flexibility in coming up with a procedure to 
address this procedural due process issue.

 It also says that it has to be an 

appropriate case; there has to be a significant risk of 
juror confusion, and a request.  There's no indication 
in the opinion that this Court intended to federalize 
the State procedure over how that request occurs.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You don't dispute 
that it's a Federal question whether that procedure is 
adequate and independent?

 MR. PECK:  I do not, but I also submit that 

it is more than adequate.  Exist -- what the Oregon 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Supreme Court decided was that the existing procedure 
permitting a limiting instruction to be requested -- in 
Oregon it's Rule 105, same language as in the Federal 
rule -- and such a request has to be timely, it has to 
be specific, it has to be on the record.  And Oregon 
precedent says that when we mean specific, the proponent 
has to give us the exact language -- this is part of the 
party presentation principle -- the exact language that 
they are asking us to use.

 And that means that we also apply our 

traditional 92-year-old rule that requests for 
instruction must be clear and correct in all respects.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  The problem --
JUSTICE BREYER:  I would say the 28 cases 

are not quite as clear as I suggested.  That is, I 
couldn't find in those 28 cases really a comparable 
situation.

 MR. PECK:  Well --
JUSTICE BREYER:  In each instance it seemed 
as if one of two things was the case:  Either, A, where 
the instruction was in error, it really was the matter 
brought up in the first place, or the court said, but he 
gave the essence of the instruction he wanted anyway.

 Now, which of those cases do you think -- I 
am leading up to, what of -- what of those cases do you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

think is your best support, because I couldn't -- they 
are not perfect.

 MR. PECK:  I would look first at 

Reyes-Camarena, which is a 2000 -- a 2000 decision 
involving the death penalty.  And there, there were two 
parts of this request, in a single request.  The request 
asked for a mitigating factors instruction, which the 
court found was correct on the law and -- and would have 
been given had it been asked for separately.

 But it also asked the jury to consider 
sympathy for the defendant, which they found to be 
contrary to Oregon law, and therefore, it was not error 
for the trial court to have refused this.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What -- what you can't tell 

from that is what was the part of the sympathy 
instruction that they thought was wrong, and was the 
part that they thought was wrong really part and parcel 
of the part that the -- that the appellant was 
complaining about.

 MR. PECK:  Well, the court, though, did cite 

a prior decision that talked about a sympathy 
instruction and claimed that this one was no different 
than that.  It was contained in a single instruction. 
It makes clear, the opinion does, on that.

 Owings v. Rose is that another case which 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

both parties have cited.  And in Owings, it's very 
clear.  There you have two different parts of an 
instruction that are offered at the same time, and --
and one part is right.  And this -- this one deals with 
third party liability.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  But I remember that, 

because they said on that one -- some floor covering 
thing, wasn't it, that they had some liability for bad 
floors or designing the floors wrong --

MR. PECK:  If --
JUSTICE BREYER:  If that's the case, what 
they said was:  Don't worry about it because basically 
he did give you the instruction that you wanted, though 
in a different way --

MR. PECK:  But --
JUSTICE BREYER:  -- and besides that, they 

added --

MR. PECK:  And besides that --
JUSTICE BREYER:  You're right.
 MR. PECK:  -- this was an alternate ground.
 Then in Hotelling v. Walther, a 1944 case, 
the proposed instruction consist -- consisted of three 
separate sentences, and the Court does reprint that 
instruction.  And each of those sentences has a 
different legal proposition in it.  And it was only the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

last sentence, the third proposition, that the Court 
found to be in error, and therefore, found that there 
was no error in failing to give this instruction because 
it was not clear and correct in all respects.

 I -- I think that that --
JUSTICE BREYER:  In the last one, what I 

have here is that the court said the so-called requested 
instruction was never requested at all --

MR. PECK:  But --
JUSTICE BREYER:  -- at all.
 MR. PECK:  But I do not believe that that 

was the --

JUSTICE BREYER:  What is the -- what is the 

-- I will go look at that again.  But what is the 
standard?  I mean, remember, I think what your brother 
said at the end is correct.  Imagine that yours is a 
death case and we have said as a matter of Federal law 
that this execution is unconstitutional, and then we 
send it back.  And the court then says:  Oh, we forgot; 
there are a couple of matters of State law here that bar 
the Federal consideration of the death question.  And 
here they are.  And then they come up with just this.
 Is this -- is this a situation where you 
would be equally -- that's my problem.  And so, put 
yourself in my shoes and -- and tell me what you would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

do if this is the death case and not the case that you 
have?

 MR. PECK:  Well, you know, it's -- it's hard 
to get my arms around your hypothetical, because I don't 
know the grounds on which --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm just imagining that 

what has happened is that the instruction that they have 
given for the defendant in the death case violates 
Federal law, and then we send it back, and what happens 
is that the State court says, oh, it may violate Federal 
law all right, but it's -- the Federal court is blocked 
from considering it because there are these two other 
State grounds that mean that the lawyer --

MR. PECK:  I understand.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.
 MR. PECK:  But -- but the question would be 
then, why would that be a situation like this, where the 
trial judge -- contrary to your assumption, 
Justice Ginsburg -- the trial judge did find that there 
were other parts of the instructions offered by Philip 
Morris that were incorrect on the law, and the illicit 
profits was one of them.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why didn't the trial judge 
just stop there?  I mean, if this is the ruling in the 
State --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. PECK:  Justice --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- once the trial judge 
found that one of the other instructions was bad, he 
could have just said, I throw the whole thing out.  Why 
did he go to all the trouble of going into this, the 
governing one?

 MR. PECK:  This is -- this is a process. 

Counsel in the case in a trial in Oregon can offer 
instructions every -- a proffered instruction up to the 
point when the jury is instructed under their law.  So 
Philip Morris had the opportunity to correct it.  The 
practical nature of a charge conference is that the 
parties come in with their proposed instructions.  The 
plaintiffs followed the pattern instruction, which by 
the way does not require enumeration.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You -- you are 

acknowledging that the trial court did not apply the 
rule --

MR. PECK:  The -- it's not a rule of trial 

procedure.  It's a rule of appellate review.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I -- yes, 

that's exactly right.  And I think the purpose for the 
rule is to avoid confusion about the ground of decision 
for the trial court.  If you have got two errors, and 
she says the instruction's no good, on appellate review 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

you don't know which basis was at issue.  There is no 
doubt here the basis on which the trial court was 
ruling, is there?

 MR. PECK:  I believe there is -- there --

first of all the trial judge rejected this instruction 
on multiple grounds, and made it clear that the illicit 
profits request was contrary to the Oregon statute that 
sets up the criteria.  She found other parts confusing 
and contradictory.  But -- and -- but there are two 
things that I think are significant here.

 You have to look at what was discussed 

here.  The trial judge, if you turn to 21a of the joint 
appendix:  "We are not here to punish for other 
plaintiffs' harms.  We are here to punish, if we are 
here to punish at all, for the conduct that caused harm 
to Jesse Williams on or after September 1, 1988."  This 
sounds very much like an acceptance of the rule that 
Philip Morris was advocating.

 On 19a she says:  "These punitive damages 

are not designed to compensate for other plaintiffs who 
are not here. " On 20a there is a colloquy; she 
expresses her belief that the risk is adequately guarded 
against, suggests language to express that, and asks: 
"Does that get you where you need to be?"

 That's when Philip Morris's counsel says 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

"Okay."  She had every reason to believe that she had 
satisfied it.  She then follows up.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Do we give any weight in 

the case to the fact that the instruction that the 
Petitioners now request and the rule had not really been 
announced clearly as of the time of this trial?  It's 
not exactly a new rule, but let's -- for our sake we 
will call it a new rule.  Does that have any weight?

 MR. PECK:  I don't think it does.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But it does in our cause 

and prejudice jurisprudence.  In habeas, which is also a 
civil action --

MR. PECK:  I understand.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- we say there is an 

overarching Federal principle that allows; because of 
cause and prejudice, we can consider the Federal issue. 
We do that all the time.  Those cases weren't raised by 
the Petitioner, but it seems to me they're quite 
relevant here, especially when you consider the 
importance of the constitutional issue, which was not 
really -- let's face it -- clear to counsel on either 
side of the aisle or to the trial judge.

 MR. PECK:  Well, here's the reason why I 
think in the context of this record, and -- and this 
litigant, it is not significant.  And that is, if you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

look at 21a, the appendix in our -- our merit brief, 
there we have Philip Morris in another smoker trial in 
Oregon offering up a requested instruction on this 
issue.  This is in 2002, so it's well before this 
Court's decision in this case.

 It's even before State Farm v. Campbell, and 

the requested instruction says, one sentence: "You are 
not to impose punishment for harms suffered by persons 
other than the plaintiff before you."

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But the trial judge didn't 
have the benefit of -- of the ruling that this Court has 
subsequently made on that point.  The trial judge in 
fact here said:  Now, if you can give me a case, then I 
will give you an instruction; you can't give me a case. 
And she was right.

 MR. PECK:  But she -- but that's actually 

not the same issue that she asked that on.  Counsel 
cited page 17a of the joint appendix for that question. 
And if you look at the bottom of 16a, her question: 
"Let me stop first and go back to the proportionality 
point you are making. " This is the ratio point, the 
second guidepost of BMW v. Gore.  She says:  "Is there 
case law that says the trial court shall, in order to 
have a constitutional instruction, tell the jury about 
proportionality?"  And this is where he says:  It's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

addressed post-verdict.  She asks:  Is there any case 
law; and she says:  No, I'm not going to go there.  I'm 
not going to go where no judge has gone before, because 
she did not want to be reversed.

 So she is trying to be careful, and I think 

you have to credit the Oregon --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, but I -- it sounds 

to me like that you are confirming my concerns.

 MR. PECK:  No.  I -- I think that what she 
said is as to the proportionality issue.  On the other 
issue, she even returns to it later when Philip Morris 
bring up a different issue with respect to punitive 
damages.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Oh.  Oh, you're -- you are 
saying that if our law had been clear at the time, that 
she still wouldn't have given the instruction?

 MR. PECK:  No.  I'm saying that she thought 
she was complying with that.  She stated on the record 
that:  We are not here to punish for other plaintiffs' 
harms.  Later on that other issue, if you look at 28a --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  So your -- your contention 
is, is that this trial court and the counsel in the case 
had all the guidance necessary to give the correct 
instruction --

MR. PECK:  She --

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- before -- before we 

even announced the rule?

 MR. PECK:  She seemed to accept -- she 

accepted the point before you announced the rule, and 
the Oregon Court of Appeals ruling in the Estate of 
Schwarz case where they offered that one-sentence 
instruction, reversed the verdict, in part because that 
instruction they said should have been given.  So they 
anticipated this Court's rule.  I think --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  To move -- to move 
from the trial court to the appellate court, if you are 
correct that there is this routine, clear rule of State 
procedure, why would the appellate court say, in its 
head, well, I could rely on that, but I want to decide 
this complicated, difficult rule of Federal 
constitutional law instead?

 MR. PECK:  Well, in fact, the -- the court 
thought it was relying on it.  In each of the previous 
iterations in the Oregon Court of Appeals and in the 
Oregon Supreme Court, they cited this rule, "clear and 
correct in all respects," in order to reject the "harm 
to others" instruction because they said it was 
inconsistent with State law.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So you think we just 

made a mistake in going ahead and reaching the Federal 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

procedural rule that we reached because it was barred by 
this adequate and independent State ground that the 
Oregon courts had relied upon?

 MR. PECK:  No.  What I'm saying is that they 
went further then, and this is what gave this Court the 
authority to rule on that substantive issue.  They said 
that that request was inconsistent with the Oregon 
statute.  And they did so -- on page 48a of the 
petition, where they say:  "In Williams 1, the Court of 
Appeals concluded that the instruction was incorrect 
under State law.  We agree."

 And then again on page 52a, they note that: 
"That is not correct as an independent matter of Oregon 
law respecting the conduct of juri trials and 
instructions" --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But then I think 

your --

MR. PECK:  But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But I think your 

answer -- go ahead with your but.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PECK:  But then they went on to say: 

"And nothing in due process requires us to look at this 
differently."  That's where they made their error.  That 
was the constitutional mistake that the Oregon court 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

made.  They thought they were wrong on a State ground. 
They thought there was no Federal issue addressing that, 
and so they decided that they didn't have to reach any 
other State law issues.  And they ignored the well 
preserved objections that Mrs. Williams made to the 
other parts of this unified instruction on punitive 
damages.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I'm sorry.  I 
still don't see that answer.  You are saying they said 
yes, there was this rule of Oregon law, but you can 
still reach -- there might still be a Federal due 
process issue, so we just can't rely on that.  And if 
that's true, then that seems to me to be a concession 
that this is not an adequate and independent State 
ground that would bar consideration of a Federal 
constitutional issue.

 MR. PECK:  What was not an adequate on 

independent State grounds was their decision that the 
Oregon statute which permits you to punish a misconduct 
in order to deter others from doing that allowed 
punishment for harm to non-parties.

 That part was their interpretation of the 

statute, and if there were no due process equation here, 
that would have been an independent State ground.  It 
was wrong as a matter of due process. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

But there are other grounds, other mistakes, 
substantive mistakes, avoiding law in this instruction. 
And any trial court that gave instruction number 34, 
which was objected to as a whole, would have committed 
reversible error because they failed to follow the 
Oregon statute.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I guess I think it's 

the more routine practice for a court, if you have a --
again, as you argue -- a clear procedural rule that bars 
addressing the substantive issue, to go ahead and rely 
on that.  Now, if the procedural rule is difficult and 
of uncertain application, maybe you go ahead and say, 
well, we we're going to decide on the merits anyway.

 But it seems to me, under your presentation, 

it's the other way around.  It's a clear and easy 
procedural rule, difficult Federal and State intertwined 
constitutional rule, and yet the court says, well, I'm 
going to do the hard work rather than the easy work.

 MR. PECK:  I think it was natural for the 

court to do that.  That was the issue presented to them 
by Philip Morris.  And courts do not reach out to do 
other issues.  They reach -- they were being solicitous 
of Philip Morris, and they were addressing the arguments 
that Philip Morris made.  And when they decided that 
that inured to Mrs. Williams benefit, not to Philip 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Morris's benefit, then they said we don't need to 
address your other questions.  And I think have you to 
look at the Oregon Supreme Court noting in their own 
decision that there was no futility here.  In fact, the 
last time we were here Philip Morris said the reason 
they needed this instruction was because of what was 
said at closing argument.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What are the elements? 

Imagine -- I'm trying to get help, if I were to try to 
put pen to paper on this.  Suppose they win in this. 
Then we will be back at the State law issue that I 
thought was going to be there, which was the issue of --
you are talking about the colloquy.  Did they give the 
essence of the Federal mandated instruction, or didn't 
they?  And then look how cooperative the judge was, et 
cetera.  But that isn't before us now.

 What is before us now is something that 

blocks our consideration of that or anybody's 
consideration of that.  And imagine this is not your 
case; imagine it is the most, you know, striking case, 
that's why I used a death example, and we go through 
exactly the same thing.  And then the court does exactly 
the same thing, the State court, that happened here. 
And now what are the words that distinguish whether the 
court is in essence, to be colloquial, giving everybody 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the runaround or whether the court is applying a -- an 
absolute, clear, you know, fair, standard of State law? 
Which really they should have gone into first and saved 
everybody a lot of trouble.

 MR. PECK:  I think the easiest way to look 

at this --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.
 MR. PECK:  -- is imagine that the statute of 

limitations, which now bars any such suit in Oregon, 
were brought today, after this Court's decision in 
Williams, and imagine that Philip Morris is the 
defendant, and at the end of the trial they offer their 
number 34 as it was before saying, "This Court said that 
they had made the right choice in asking for this 
instruction."

 A trial court clearly would engage in 

reversible error if they gave that instruction because 
it materially departs from Oregon law.  At the same 
time, they could deny that instruction.  They could deny 
that instruction, and the Oregon Supreme Court would not 
violate the mandate of this Court's decision by saying 
that that is a correct decision on the part of the trial 
law court because it was not clear and correct in all 
respects.

 And that is part of what distinguishes this. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

This is still a rule that has to apply to its 
instruction --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, what they say is --
look at the two errors they found.  One is in saying 
"may" instead of "shall," and the other is in saying 
"illicit profit" instead of "profit."  And they are 
pretty picky.  So, this is very picky, they say.  And 
not only are they being picky, but they are being picky 
after the event.  And they could have raised it first, 
and they have 28 cases supporting them, but none of 
these cases is right on point because the subject matter 
is, you know, closer bound up.  And so they put all this 
together and say it's an unreasonable application of a 
rule that was there.  And you say --

MR. PECK:  I would urge you, Justice Breyer, 
to look at the original case in 1916, the Sorenson case. 
There the court was face with a question:  If there is 
the kernel of a correct instruction in there, is that 
adequate to ask the court to give that instruction or 
should we insist on what they thought at the time was 
the majority rule in the United States, that we should 
insist on an instruction that is clear and correct in 
all respects, and that the -- that the counsel has the 
responsibility to provide that?  And they decided to go 
with the clear and correct rule.  That was the debate 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that they had, and that debate informs this one.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Sorenson was the agent and 

the principal, the broker who was selling some land.

 MR. PECK:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  And I think in that case 
they also said, "By the way, you've got basically the 
instruction that you wanted, and you overlooked" -- no, 
that was the case where they said, "You overlooked in 
your instruction an important allegation of fact," which 
allegation was that the guy had been rehired as a 
broker.

 MR. PECK:  And there's a similar distinction 

that makes Osborne irrelevant, which counsel suggested 
was a -- an exemplary here.

 In Osborne, an element of the crime had not 
been instructed upon.  That's why there didn't have to 
be the offer of an instruction.  But the party 
presentation principle puts the onus on counsel to do 
so, and Philip Morris showed, in 2002, well before this 
Court's decisions that they know how to do it when they 
want to.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Peck, are you -- are 

you asserting that our remand order was in error?  After 
all, it did say, "We remand this case so that the Oregon 
Supreme Court can apply this standard we have set 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

forth."

 MR. PECK:  And I -- I'd contend, Your Honor, 

that the --

JUSTICE BREYER:  We didn't say it was in 

error.  I mean, there is nothing wrong with that.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PECK:  Well, I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  If you say it's in error, 

my next question is going to be --

MR. PECK:  I think the Oregon Supreme Court 

read that decision --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- can -- is it up to a 

State court to sit in judgment about whether our remand 
orders are in error or not?

 MR. PECK:  Well, I'm prepared to say that 

the Oregon Supreme Court took that remand order to mean 
that they had to have in place -- this was a procedural 
due process decision -- that they had to have a 
procedure that was fair, outcome neutral, applied --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  If that's what they took it 
to mean, they were just wrong.  I mean, that's not what 
it says.

 MR. PECK:  Well, if you look --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  The opinion concludes, "As 

the preceding discussion makes clear, we believe the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Oregon Supreme Court applied the wrong constitutional 
standard when considering Philip Morris's appeal."  And 
it goes to the constitutional issue we are talking 
about.

 MR. PECK:  When considering --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  "We remand so that the 

Oregon Supreme Court can apply the standard we have set 
forth," which has nothing to do with the issue we have 
been discussing this morning.

 MR. PECK:  Your Honor --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  So it was wrong?
 MR. PECK:  No, it was not wrong.  I don't 

think it was wrong, and here's the reason I don't think 
it was wrong:  You corrected the Oregon Supreme Court 
when that thought that due process does not inform the 
analysis on harm to non-parties.  You corrected that 
substantive error, and that part is what they got wrong.
 Much of this opinion said that they got lots 

of other things right.  And so Oregon looked at it and 
said, "Okay, we got that issue wrong, but there are 
other problems with this instruction that are adequate 
and independent grounds for --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's very nice, but 

that's not what we remanded for.

 MR. PECK:  You did not remand for that, but 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

when this Court decides a constitutional issue of one 
part, it doesn't necessarily tell the court anything 
different.  What -- the essence of this Court's opinion 
is that where there's a significant risk of jury 
confusion, the State has to provide a procedure and has 
flexibility in providing that procedure.  There is no 
indication that the procedure for limiting instructions 
does not satisfy that.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  The problem that I think we 

all have is how do we guard, in effect, guard against 
making constitutional decisions which are simply going 
to be nullified by some clever device raising a 
procedural issue or an issue of State law when the case 
goes back?  Is there any way for us to ensure against, 
in effect, a bad faith response to our decision except 
by purporting to require the State courts to follow a 
certain order of battle in the decision of issues before 
them so that when the case gets to us, we can be assured 
that there is no lurking issue that has not yet been 
decided as a matter of State law that in effect could 
then be resurrected to nullify our decision?  Is there 
any way to guard against that except by telling the 
State courts what the sequence is in which they have to 
make decisions?

 MR. PECK:  I believe there is.  And I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

believe that it would be error to suggest to the State 
supreme court that they must, even though prudent, 
follow a specific sequence, simply because that would 
mean that they would have to necessarily decide every 
State law issue in the case --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  I -- I see the problem.  I 

mean, that's why I raised the question, how can we 
ensure --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But we do that all the 
time in cause and prejudice cases.  We do it all the 
time --

MR. PECK:  Yes.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- because of the 

importance of the constitutional right.

 MR. PECK:  I understand that, but I think 
the adequate and independent State law ground provides 
all the protection.  You assume, and I think properly 
so, that State supreme courts will operate in good 
faith.  Even in Flowers, after the fourth trip to the 
U.S. Supreme Court, were -- Alabama Supreme Court was 
still trusted to apply the decision.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  Your -- your answer 

is there is -- there is no way to guard against it 
except --

MR. PECK:  Except --

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  -- by reviewing the good 

faith of what the court does on remand.

 MR. PECK:  Well, by -- by accepting that if 
the rule that has been imposed was invoked properly by 
the party that invoked it at the right time --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes.
 MR. PECK:  -- that it IS firmly established 

and regularly followed, then it should satisfy the 
Court --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But it serves very little 

interest.  Nothing the trial judge would have done, 
nothing the plaintiff's counsel has done below, nothing 
that the intermediate clause would have done, would have 
-- would have been different if they had submitted what 
they call the "correct in all respects" rule.

 If they had filed the "correct in all 

respects" rule and submitted that rule -- if she had 
said, judge, I want to type a little piece of paper, 
everything would have been the same.

 MR. PECK:  I suggest that it would be 

different.  I think the Oregon Supreme Court decided, 
when they decided that there was no futility in offering 
another one, that it would be different.  And the fact 
of the matter is that --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I excluded the Oregon 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Supreme Court from my list of -- of participants who 
would have done something differently.

 MR. PECK:  But -- but -- but the fact of the 

matter is, if after closing arguments which was the 
trigger that Philip Morris urged upon this Court for 
needing this substantive rule, if after -- if after that 
Philip Morris's counsel had returned to the judge -- you 
know, they said a few things that we think would tell 
the jury to punish for harm to others.  We don't think 
the instruction is adequate.  We will give you the same 
instruction, that one-sentence instruction like we gave 
in Fink v. Schwarz.  I believe the court would have 
given that instruction.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  There is, of course, 

another way to protect our constitutional authority in 
this case.  We are talking about procedures for 
addressing the substantive due-process challenge to 
a punitive damages award.  That is the second question 
presented here.

 If we went and granted that question and 

considered that issue, we would have protected our 
authority to reach that question despite the procedural 
objections alone.  Why don't we just do that?

 MR. PECK:  Well, Your Honor, of course, the 
last time we were here you had a full briefing and even 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

some argument on that.  And I -- I believe that we are 
prepared to stand on that briefing and argument.

 We do not believe the Due Process Clause is 
an exercise in elementary school mathematics.  It does 
not tell you something about this.  Here you have to 
look at the enormity of the misconduct.  And that did --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm not asking you 

to argue here today the second question presented.

 MR. PECK:  I understand.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But if we have some 
concern, if there is something malodorous about the fact 
that the Oregon Supreme Court waited until the last 
minute to come up with this rule that was before it all 
the time, which was a State court rule that you would 
expect the State court to be addressing as a matter of 
course, then -- then we -- we can avoid having to 
address what we do in a situation, having to 
characterize the nature of that -- that consideration, 
simply by saying:  Look, we are going to go ahead with 
the questions presented.  We can decide it in this case; 
and to avoid having to reach that, we will go ahead and 
do it.

 MR. PECK:  Well, it's -- it's certainly 

within this Court's power to do that.  Philip Morris had 
made a very harsh accusation in this case of bad faith 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

on the part of the Oregon Supreme Court.  There was no 
sandbagging here.  The Oregon court did not act in that 
way.

 Mrs. Williams raised the State-law issues at 
every opportunity, which is something that Philip Morris 
denied in their petition but then conceded in their 
merit brief.  And the fact is it was before the Oregon 
Court of Appeals.  It was before the Oregon Supreme 
Court, and we even raised it before this court.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You -- in answer to the 
Chief Justice, you are not suggesting that we should go 
ahead and decide the second question when there has been 
no briefing on it?

 MR. PECK:  I am not suggesting that you 

decide the question, but I recognize the Court has the 
power to do so.  Mapp v. Ohio came to this Court as a 
First Amendment case and came out as a Fourth Amendment 
case.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I -- I thought --

Mr. Peck, I thought you just told me that there has been 
full and adequate briefing on that question.

 MR. PECK:  I believe we had full and 

adequate briefing.  We may not have had an opportunity 
to fully argue the case, and it's up for you to decide 
whether or not you -- you have enough on that. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

I thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

Mr. Shapiro, you have three minutes remaining.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. 

Justice Breyer asked about these various cases from 
Oregon, whether they provided guidance and a warning 
here.  And counsel referred to three cases, Reeve, 
Owings and then Sorenson.  If you look at those cases, 
you will see there were simple instructions proposed on 
a single topic that were infected with an error 
throughout.

 And the court said if there is any valid 

proportion of this instruction, it was covered by 
something that was said to the jury already.  So there 
was no harm in not giving that instruction.

 That is certainly not our case.  We have a 

separately numbered paragraph dealing with the 
Constitution, which is quite apart from the statutory 
factors.

 Now, counsel referred to the charge actually 

given by the court as if it provided some protection 
against punishment for harm to nonparties.  If you read 
that instruction, far from providing the protection that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the -- this Court said was obligatory, it invited global 
punishment.  It told the jury they could return any 
punitive-damage award up to one hundred million dollars. 
Lo and behold, they come up with eighty million dollars, 
right within the suggested range of this charge.  And 
there was no --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Which portion of the 

charge specifically are you referring to?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  This is page 37a of our joint 

appendix.  The -- the court concludes the amount of 
punitive damages you assess may not exceed the sum of 
one hundred million dollars.  And that, of course, was 
the zone of reasonableness that the jury inferred from 
this, suggesting a global punishment to the jury with no 
protection.

 Now this Court said that that protection has 

to be provided.  The Court said the State must insist, 
that the State must give assurance, and it's an 
important constitutional right, as Justice Kennedy said. 
I don't think the State court --

JUSTICE BREYER:  What is your response to 

the Chief Justice's suggestion that maybe we should 
reach the issue of due process on the amount?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  We wouldn't oppose that 

because this is clearly excessive under what the Court 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

said in State Farm:  Where there is substantial 
compensatory damages, one to one is something of a norm.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I wasn't asking to 
you argue it, either but I mean I suppose the procedure 
the parties would prefer, if we were interested in that, 
would be for us to grant the second question and then 
have the normal briefing in consideration.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Oh, that -- that -- yes, 

certainly, that -- that -- that is true.  I -- I would 
comment, too, on Justice Breyer's question about what is 
the ultimate test here.

 The Court has stated various criteria and 

opinions over the last century, but the -- the key ideas 
are?  Was it an ambush, something that couldn't be 
anticipated?

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I mean I will tell you my 

subjective reaction going through these 38 cases is they 
are not quite in point, but they really take away the 
idea of the bad faith, particularly because the first 
time what the judge said, which I didn't understand its 
significance then, but the judge said:  Well, since the 
first part of that paragraph was in -- was in error 
anyway, I don't have to reach the question of whether 
there were other mistakes under State law in the rest of 
the instruction.  They did say that the first time, I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

think.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Oh, yes, but this is the first 

time the Court has ever taken this "correct in all 
respects" rule and extended it to a completely different 
topic, U.S. constitutional law in a separately numbered 
paragraph.  And we had no notice that this had to be 
broken out on a separate piece of paper.  If we did, we 
would have broken it out on a separate piece of paper. 
It's just like Lee against Kemna where the Court said --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What about this point 

that was made that in 2002 that is exactly what Philip 
Morris did, give one simple, precise instruction?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Well, no, that instruction was 
not harm to nonparties.  That was harm for out-of-State 
injuries.  It was a different issue.  And it's true the 
lawyers there did break up their instructions 
differently, but the pattern instruction --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is it -- is it true that 
they gave one simple sentence stating their position on 
-- on what harm to others, how that --

MR. SHAPIRO:  No.  That's not true.  That 
case did not accept our instruction.  It did not.  It 
accepted the State Farm instruction, which said that 
there can't be punishment for out-of-State harm.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But -- but was the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

instruction stated in a -- in a single paragraph, but 
all the other requests to charge were broken out?

 MR. SHAPIRO:  Yes.  This -- this State Farm 

instruction was broken out.  That's an option for 
lawyers.  But under the pattern instruction, it's quite 
proper to put them all in one instructional basket. 
That's what the form instructions said, and that's what 
both parties here did.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

The case is submitted.

 MR. SHAPIRO:  We thank the Court.
 (Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

ability 24:16 
above-entitled 

1:14 58:13 
absolute 43:2 
accept 5:4 6:7 
38:3 57:22 
acceptance 

34:17 

accepted 9:18 
38:4 57:23 

accepting 50:3 
accusation 

52:25 

acknowledging 

33:17 
act 53:2 
action 35:12 
add 17:22 
added 22:23 

30:17 

addition 18:3 
additions 18:15 
address 12:1 
23:11 27:15 
42:2 52:17 

addressed 3:19 

37:1 

addressing 40:2 
41:10,23 51:17 
52:15 

adequacy 6:15 
7:5,23 8:9,12 
9:5,10 10:5 
11:7,25 22:9 
26:23 

adequate 3:13 

7:4,6 9:14 
11:19 12:2 
21:16 23:5 
27:23,25 39:2 
40:14,17 44:19 
47:21 49:16 
51:10 53:21,23 

adequately 

12:11 34:22 

adopt 5:10 

allowed 40:20 
allows 35:15 
all-or-nothing 

18:13 

alternate 4:8 

30:20 

alternative 

21:10 

ambush 7:7 

25:10 56:14 
amended 23:1 
Amendment 

53:17,17 

amount 55:10 

55:23 

answer 8:3 
39:20 40:9 
49:22 53:10 

antagonize 

14:10 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

argument 1:15 

14:11 

52:25 56:19
balance 27:2
ball 16:4
bar 11:15 31:20 

2:2,7 3:3,7 
4:20 7:3,15 
12:6 22:19 
27:6 42:7 52:1  barred 39:1
52:2 54:4 

40:15

bars 41:9 43:9 

arguments 4:12  based 21:23

adopted 4:1 

5:23 

advocating 

34:18 

apart 54:20 
appeal 19:19 

47:2 

Appeals 38:5,19 

39:10 53:8 
appear 15:18 
APPEARAN... 

affirmance 24:4 
agent 45:2 
agree 39:11 
ahead 11:21 
38:25 39:20 
41:10,12 52:19  appellate 4:2 
14:7 22:19 
52:21 53:12 
26:25 33:20,25  articulate 8:11 
38:11,13 

aisle 35:22 
Alabama 19:18 

20:13 22:18 
41:23 51:4 

appellant 29:18 

arms 32:4 

1:17 

allegation 45:9 

20:3,5,9 49:20  appendix 15:23 
34:13 36:1,18 
55:10 

45:10 

application 4:14  asking 5:14 8:2 

basically 30:12

basis 20:17 34:1 

45:6

34:2

basket 58:6
battle 48:17
Beaty 13:2
beginning 10:23
begins 13:1
behalf 1:18,20
2:4,6,9 3:8 
27:7 54:5
behold 55:4
belief 34:22
believe 4:10
22:15 31:11
34:4 35:1
46:25 48:25
49:1 51:12
52:1,3 53:22 
believed 3:22

7:12

benefit 36:11
41:25 42:1

asked 12:13 
18:15 22:22 
29:7,9,10 
36:17 54:7 

18:2 28:9 
43:14 52:7 
56:3 

asks 34:23 37:1 
asserting 45:23 
assess 55:11 
assume 49:17 
assumption 5:2 

32:18 

assurance 55:18 
assured 48:18 
attention 22:8 
authority 12:14 

12:17 18:5 
39:6 51:15,22 
avoid 4:3 33:23 

24:25 41:12 
44:13 

applied 3:16 
4:17 20:25 
46:19 47:1 

apply 3:18 8:17 

14:20 21:8 
24:19 25:6,8 
28:10 33:17 
44:1 45:25 
47:7 49:21 
applying 20:6 
20:10 27:13 
43:1 

18:11 

51:18 55:3 
approaching 8:1  a.m 1:16 3:2 
appropriate 

appreciated 

analysis 47:16 
analyzed 23:15 
announced 35:6  approach 5:19 
18:13 20:11 
approached 

38:2,4 

8:23 

anticipate 7:8 
anticipated 38:9  argue 5:6 9:2 

6:25 7:19 8:4 
27:17 

56:15 

anybody's 42:18 
anyway 7:11 
28:23 41:13 
56:23 

14:2 41:9 52:8 
53:24 56:4 
argued 8:16 
18:8 20:8 

arguing 14:10 

52:16,21 

best 21:5,7 29:1 
better 24:14
beware 16:11
avoiding 41:2 
award 11:18,22  blocked 32:11
blocks 42:18
BMW 12:16

58:12 
B

back 19:14
31:19 32:9
36:20 42:11
48:14

bad 21:2 30:8 

33:3 48:15

36:22

bottom 4:5

36:19

bound 44:12
break 16:25
22:17 57:16
Breyer 14:12

15:17 16:10,13
17:12,22 18:17 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

19:6,14,16 
21:5 24:7,14 
28:14,19 29:14 
30:6,11,16,19 
31:6,10,13 
32:6,15 42:8 
43:7 44:3,15 
45:2,5 46:4 
54:7 55:21 
56:16 

Breyer's 56:10 
brief 9:15 17:4 

19:20,22 21:20 
36:1 53:7 

briefing 51:25 
52:2 53:13,21 
53:23 56:7 
briefs 10:15 

12:1 

bring 37:12 
broken 57:7,8 

58:2,4 

broker 45:3,11 
brother 31:15 
brought 22:8 
28:22 43:10 
Brown 21:19 
burden 20:14 

58:2 

Chief 3:3,9 

come 21:5,7 
31:22 33:13 
52:13 55:4 
comes 21:19 
coming 27:14 
11:12 27:3,8 
comment 56:10 
27:21 33:21 
38:10,24 39:16  committed 41:4 
39:19 40:8 
41:7 51:14 
52:7,10 53:11 
53:19 54:2,6 
55:22 56:3 
58:9 

22:3,3,14,15 
23:18 24:19,20  check 10:18 
24:22 27:11,17  Chicago 1:18 
28:20 29:25 
30:11,21 31:17 
32:1,1,8 33:8 
35:4 36:5,13 
36:14,23 37:1 
37:22 38:6 
42:20,20 44:16 
44:16 45:5,8 
45:24 48:13,18 
49:5 51:16 
52:20,25 53:17  choice 43:14 
53:18,24 54:18  chose 5:19 
57:22 58:10,12  cite 29:20 

compensatory 

compensation 

comparable 

compensate 

compelling 

28:16 

34:20 

13:21 

22:16 

cases 14:15,18 

cited 17:4 20:9 
21:13,20 30:1 
36:18 38:20 

15:9,12,20 
17:13 19:7 
20:5,10 25:6,7 
25:7 28:14,16 
28:24,25 35:17 
44:10,11 49:10  claimed 29:22 
clarified 10:23 
54:7,9,10 
56:17 

civil 25:6 35:12 
claim 5:16,18 

6:8 24:16 

11:2 

cause 35:10,16 

clause 50:13 

52:3 

clear 26:17 

13:6 56:2 

complaining 

29:19 

completely 4:3 
14:20,21 57:4 

complicated 
20:13 38:15 
complied 7:10 
complies 11:18 
comply 12:7 
complying 

37:18 

confusion 27:18 

33:23 48:5 
consider 5:24 
19:20 29:10 
35:16,19 

consideration 
11:15 31:21 
40:15 42:18,19 
52:18 56:7 

considered 5:17 

9:25 10:1 
51:21 

considering 

32:12 47:2,5 
consist 30:22 
consisted 30:22 
Constitution 
16:23 54:20 
constitutional 
3:17,20 4:14 
5:25 7:7 8:18 
27:10 35:20 
36:24 38:16 
39:25 40:16 
41:17 47:1,3 
48:1,11 49:14 
51:15 55:19 
57:5 

contained 29:23 
contend 25:1 

46:2 

contention 

37:21 

49:10 

caused 34:15 
22:20 23:2,23  CDRed 6:15 
century 56:13 
cert 6:13,13 

business 5:20 

C 
C 2:1 3:1 
call 35:8 50:15 
called 6:17 
Campbell 36:6 
captures 26:21 
care 12:11 
careful 37:5 
carefully 19:8 
case 3:4 4:8,9,13 
5:20 6:8,11,15 
10:2,24 11:16 
12:16 13:16 
16:24 19:17,24 
20:18 21:4,8,9 
21:12,18,20 

9:16,17 10:1 
11:21 18:19 
certain 4:23 
5:20 48:17 

certainly 52:23 

54:18 56:9 
cetera 42:16 
challenge 51:17 
change 15:13 

23:22,23 

characterize 

52:18 

charge 17:3,5 
21:24 22:1 
23:7 33:12 
54:22 55:5,8 

28:12,15 29:24  conceded 53:6 
concern 10:21 
30:2 31:4 34:6 
35:21 37:15 
38:12,20 41:9 
41:15 43:2,23 
44:22,25 46:25  concession 

concerned 6:7 
concerns 37:8 

25:5 52:11 

context 35:24 
clearer 26:12 
continue 14:2 
clearly 12:18,24  concluded 39:10  contradictory

40:13 

concludes 46:24 

34:9 

35:6 43:16 
55:25 

clever 48:12 
climb 5:8 
closer 44:12 
closing 42:7 

51:4 

colloquial 42:25 
colloquy 12:23 
26:5,7,9 34:21 
42:13 

conduct 34:15 

42:15 

55:10 

conditioned 

27:11 

39:14 

conference 13:1 

21:24 33:12 

confirming 37:8 
confront 4:22 
confusing 34:8 

contrary 29:12 

32:18 34:7 
cooperative 

copy 17:16 
correct 4:13 5:3 

6:17 9:14,21
10:22 11:3 
12:8 15:7 20:8 
22:6,13 24:11 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

28:12 29:8 
31:4,16 33:11 
37:23 38:12,21 
39:13 43:22,23 
44:18,22,25 
50:15,16 57:3 
corrected 47:14 

correctly 11:1 

47:16 

26:21 

counsel 13:23,24 

33:8 34:25 
35:21 36:17 
37:22 44:23 
45:13,18 50:12 
51:7 54:2,9,22 
58:9 

counts 8:12 
couple 31:20 
course 3:20 

51:14,24 52:16 
55:12 

court 1:1,15 

cutting 6:7 

cut 5:16,18 9:1 

D
D 1:8 3:1 
damages 11:22
13:5,20 16:9 
17:9 34:19
37:13 40:7
51:18 55:11
56:2

deal 6:20
dealing 3:23 4:5 

17:25 54:19

deals 30:4
dealt 11:8 15:15 

56:12 

27:1,9,12,19 
28:1,22 29:8 
29:13,20 30:23  cuts 8:5 
31:1,7,19 
32:10,11 33:17 
33:24 34:2 
36:11,23 37:22 
38:5,11,11,13 
38:17,19,20 
39:5,9,25 41:3 
41:8,17,20 
42:3,22,23,25 
43:1,13,16,20 
43:23 44:17,19 
45:25 46:10,13 
46:16 47:1,7 
47:14 48:1,2 
49:2,20,20 
50:2,9,21 51:1 
51:5,12 52:12 
52:14,15 53:1 
53:2,8,9,9,15 
53:16 54:14,23 
55:1,10,16,17 
55:20,25 56:12 
57:3,9 58:11 

16:22

45:1

death 29:5 31:17 

31:21 32:1,8
42:21

debate 44:25

courts 14:6,7,16 

18:9 39:3 
41:21 48:16,23 
49:18 

3:10,11,15,16 
3:18,19,20,23 
3:25 4:5,8,12 
4:12,22,25 5:7 
5:10,11,17,18 
5:19,23 6:9,12 
6:13,14,17,19 
6:24 7:1,12,15  Court's 3:12,21 
4:17 7:4 12:2 
7:22,24 8:6,7,9 
27:10 36:5 
8:13,16,17,19 
38:9 43:10,21 
8:20,21,22 9:6 
9:8,9,17,19,25 
45:20 48:3 
10:3,9,12,23 
52:24 
11:5,7,8,10,10 
12:4 14:8 16:4 
16:19 17:10 
18:10,11,23 
covering 30:7 
19:18,18 20:3 
credit 37:6 
20:5,10,12,14 
20:15,18,24,25  crime 45:15 
21:2,22 22:1,5 
22:7,13,19 
23:24 24:24 
25:8 26:20 

cover 25:25 
covered 13:5,11 

25:21 26:6 
54:15 

criteria 7:4 25:9 

criminal 21:12 

26:23 34:8 

25:7 

debated 5:23

6:12 9:7,12,15
9:16 10:14
21:25 23:15
debating 10:4
DECEASED 1:9
December 1:12
decide 7:24 9:6 

10:6,16,18
21:16 38:14
41:13 49:4
52:20 53:12,15
53:24

decided 6:18

10:2,8 11:10 
11:13 18:9,10
28:1 40:3 
41:24 44:24 
48:20 50:21,22 

decides 48:1 
decision 9:8 

11:24 29:4,21 
33:23 36:5 

19:25 47:9 

40:18 42:4 
43:10,21,22 
46:11,18 48:15  disentangle 
48:17,21 49:21 

20:13 

discussion 46:25 

decisions 8:9 

dismiss 22:11 

11:6 12:2 18:9  disposition 4:11 
45:20 48:11,24 
defendant 22:4 

5:11,14 7:1 
dispute 26:24 

29:11 32:8 
43:12 

defendant's 

25:3 

27:21 

distinction 

45:12 

distinguish

denied 53:6 
deny 26:3 43:19  distinguishes

42:24 

43:19 

departs 43:18 
designed 34:20 
designing 30:9 
despite 51:22 
deter 40:20 
determination 

10:10,13 
determined 

10:12 

device 48:12 
difference 12:20 
different 10:2 
13:11 16:22 
19:19 29:22 
30:2,14,25 
37:12 48:3 
50:14,21,23 
57:4,15 

differently 
39:24 51:2 
57:17 

difficult 38:15 

41:11,16 

difficulty 5:1 
direction 3:21 
directions 3:12 

3:17 8:17 

disagreed 13:14 
discretion 27:12 
discussed 11:14 

23:23 34:11 

discussing 13:2 

43:25 

doctrine 9:10 
document 18:15 
doing 16:5 18:23 

dollars 55:3,4

40:20 

55:12 

doubt 34:2 
dozens 20:10 
drafting 12:7 
due 3:14 6:24 
11:18 17:21 
18:4 21:23 
22:6 23:14 
24:2,5 25:3 
26:21 27:15 
39:23 40:11,23
40:25 46:18 
47:15 52:3 
55:23 

due-process

51:17 

duty 21:22 
D.C 1:11,20

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 21:18
easiest 43:5
easy 41:15,18
edited 23:1
effect 5:5,15
13:20 20:9

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

45:14 

element 45:15 
elementary 52:4  exercise 7:9 25:9 
elements 42:8 
emphasizing 

48:10,15,20 

eighty 55:4 
either 14:21 
28:20 35:21 
56:4 

26:20 

engage 43:16 
enormity 52:6 
ensure 48:14 

49:8 

entail 5:15 
enumeration 

33:15 

equally 31:24 
equation 40:23 
error 28:21 

29:12 31:2,3 
39:24 41:5 
43:17 45:23 
46:5,8,14 
47:17 49:1 
54:12 56:22 
errors 17:17 
19:21 33:24 
44:4 

especially 35:19 
ESQ 1:18,20 2:3 

2:5,8 

essence 28:23 

42:14,25 48:3 
established 50:7 
Estate 1:8 38:5 
et 42:15 
event 44:9 
everybody 
42:25 43:4 
exact 28:7,8 
exactly 13:9 
14:9 18:11 
33:22 35:7 
42:22,22 57:11 

example 42:21 
exceed 55:11 

58:3 

fashion 9:3 
fault 16:4 

excessive 55:25 
excluded 50:25 
Excuse 9:11 
execution 31:18  Federal 6:24 
exemplary 
7:23,25 9:5 
10:18 11:9 
21:17 22:9 
26:22 27:22 
28:3 31:17,21 
32:9,10,11 
35:15,16 38:15 
38:25 40:2,11 
40:15 41:16 
42:14 

25:14 52:4 
Exist 27:25 
existing 28:1 
exorbitant 
24:24 25:1 
expect 52:15 
explicit 8:17 
exposition 21:25 
express 34:23 
expressed 11:5 
expresses 34:22 
extended 57:4 
extension 11:6 
extensively 

federalize 27:19 
feel 11:7 
fields 25:5 
filed 50:16 
find 21:7 28:16 

32:19 

10:15 
eye 15:1 
F

face 35:21 44:17 
fact 35:4 36:13 

38:17 42:4 
45:9 50:23 
51:3 52:11 
53:7 

factors 29:7 

54:21 

failed 3:12 41:5 
failing 31:3 
fair 8:25 43:2 

46:19 

fairness 10:21 
fair-enough 

21:25 

faith 20:18,24 
21:2 48:15 
49:19 50:2 
52:25 56:19 

far 54:25 
Farm 10:25 36:6 

56:1 57:23 

finding 3:15 
Fink 51:12 
firmly 50:7 
first 3:4 4:2 6:19 

6:23 8:9 9:23 
10:19 11:2 
12:3 19:9 
27:13 28:22 
29:3 34:5 
36:20 43:3 
44:9 53:17 
56:19,22,25 
57:2 

flexibility 27:14 

48:6 

floor 30:7 
floors 30:9,9 
Flowers 19:17 
22:15 49:19 
follow 3:12,21 

22:19 41:5 
48:16 49:3 

followed 14:16 

33:14 50:8 
follows 35:2 
forfeiting 7:7 
forfeiture 3:14 

42:25 54:17 
four 8:16 9:7,12  global 55:1,14 

4:1 8:11 24:2 

forgot 31:19 
form 22:25 58:7 
forth 46:1 47:8 
fortiori 22:14,16 
found 8:21 

19:21 20:15 
21:22 29:8,11 
31:2,2 33:3 
34:8 44:4 

15:4 

53:17 

53:22 

fourth 49:19 

full 51:25 53:21 

fully 53:24 
further 4:6 27:1 

39:5 

futile 12:3,7 
futility 7:9 25:10 

25:14 42:4 
50:22 

future 25:6 

G

G 3:1
game 25:2
gee 16:1
general 24:8,22
George 21:8,9
gesture 12:3
Ginsburg 4:4

6:16 10:11,16
17:2 19:23
20:2 23:3 26:4 
26:11 32:19
53:10 55:7
57:10,18,25

gist 26:9
give 12:14,17

13:12,17,19,19
15:12,21 21:11 
21:22 23:10
24:10,17 25:18 
26:2 28:7
30:13 31:3

35:3 36:13,14 
36:14 37:23 
42:13 44:19 
51:10 55:18 
57:12 

given 29:9 32:8 

37:16 38:8 
51:13 54:23 

giving 13:5 15:7 

go 11:20 18:1,12 
19:11,15 31:14 
33:5 36:20 
37:2,3 39:20 
41:10,12 42:21 
44:24 52:19,21 
53:11 

goes 47:3 48:14 
going 5:5 11:20 
12:17 13:16,19 
14:2 16:13 
17:14 19:20 
22:21 23:10 
24:9,10,16
25:18,24 26:2 
33:5 37:2,3
38:25 41:13,18
42:12 46:9 
48:11 52:19 
56:17 

good 8:25 9:4 
14:17 15:2 
20:18,24 26:19 
33:25 49:18 
50:1 

goodbye 16:15 
Gore 36:22 
gotcha 25:2 
governing 33:6 
grant 56:6 
granted 11:21 

51:20 

great 9:7 25:4 
ground 3:13 4:9 
4:9 6:15 7:3,6 
8:13 9:14 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

instructed 33:10 

insufficiently 

20:11 

11:20 12:2 
21:10,16 30:20  help 42:9 
33:23 39:2 
40:1,15,24 
49:16 

hesitate 10:4 

11:11 
hill 5:7 
Honor 4:10 6:10 
7:22 9:24 11:7 
11:23 46:2 
47:10 51:24 

grounds 23:4 
32:5,13 34:6 
40:18 41:1 
47:22 

guard 48:10,10  Hotelling 30:21 
hundred 55:3,12 
hypothetical 

48:22 49:23 
guarded 34:22 
guess 24:12 41:7 
guidance 37:23 

32:4 

54:8 

guidepost 36:22 
guy 45:10 
H 

habeas 35:11 
handbook 16:11 

16:17 

happened 14:22 

32:7 42:23 
happens 32:9 
happy 11:25 
hard 15:22 32:3 

41:18 

harm 4:16 10:24 

10:25 11:2 
12:15 13:15 
26:1 34:15 
38:21 40:21 
47:16 51:9 
54:17,24 57:14 
57:14,20,24 
harms 34:14 
36:8 37:20 
harsh 52:25 
head 38:14 
headings 22:18 
hear 3:3 7:19 

8:3 

8:7 

heard 4:12 6:9 

heavily 8:12 
held 8:13 14:7,7 

I

idea 13:14 56:19 
ideas 56:13
ignored 40:4 
Ill 1:18 
illicit 23:9 32:21 

34:6 44:6 

imagine 31:16 

42:9,19,20 
43:8,11 

imagining 32:6 
imperfect 21:21 
implicitly 4:21 
imply 14:20 
importance 

35:20 49:14 

important 24:2 

45:9 55:19 
impose 36:8 
imposed 50:4 
impression 9:23 
inadequate 4:3 
include 16:8 

17:20 

included 11:3 

including 4:15 

26:7 

8:10 

inconsistent 4:6 

4:11,17,21 
5:12 38:23 
39:7 

incorrect 12:12 

23:7 32:21 
39:10 

indented 16:2 
independent 
11:19 27:23 
39:2,13 40:14 
40:18,24 47:22 
49:16 

indication 27:18 

48:7 

infected 54:12 
inferred 55:13 
inform 47:15 
informs 45:1 
injuries 57:15 
insist 21:3 44:20 

44:22 55:17 
instance 6:19 
10:19 28:19 

45:16 

instruction 3:23 

6:21 7:10,12 
12:8,12,15,18 
13:1,5,7,17,20 
14:8,16,23 
15:14 16:7,9 
16:15,20 17:9 
17:10,16,17,20 
18:1,6,14,24 
19:3,8 21:12 
21:23 22:6,10 
22:12 23:15,19 
24:10,11 25:18 
26:2,18,19 
28:2,12,21,23 
29:7,16,22,23 
30:3,13,22,24 
31:3,8 32:7 
33:9,14 34:5 
35:4 36:3,7,14 
36:24 37:16,24 
38:7,8,22 
39:10 40:6 
41:2,3 42:6,14 
43:15,17,19,20 
44:2,18,19,22 

45:7,9,17 
47:21 51:10,11 
51:11,13 54:15 
54:17,25 56:25 
57:12,13,17,22 
57:23 58:1,4,5 

instructional 
21:21 22:4 
58:6 

instructions 

12:23 15:4,21 
15:23 17:7 
22:14 24:9 
32:20 33:3,9 
33:13 39:15 
48:7 54:11 
57:16 58:7 
instruction's 

33:25 

8:23 

intended 27:19 
interest 22:17 

24:1,3,6,7
50:11 

interested 56:5 
interesting

intermediate 

21:19 

50:13 

intermix 19:19 
interpretation

intertwined 

40:22 

41:16 

inured 41:25 
invite 8:19 
invited 17:25 

55:1 

invites 27:12 
invoked 50:4,5
involving 29:5 
irrelevant 45:13 
issue 3:20 5:3,3 

5:23 6:5,12
7:19 8:6,23 9:1 
9:2,6,12 10:2,5 

11:7,25 12:11 
12:24 17:3,5 
19:17 21:1,25 
23:12 27:15 
34:1 35:16,20 
36:4,17 37:10 
37:11,12,20 
39:6 40:2,12 
40:16 41:10,20 
42:11,12 47:3 
47:8,20 48:1 
48:13,13,19 
49:5 51:21 
55:23 57:15 

issues 3:24 4:23 
4:24 5:19 10:1 
16:22 40:4 
41:22 48:17 
53:4 

item 18:12,12
iterations 38:19 

J

Jesse 1:8 34:16 
joint 34:12
36:18 55:9

judge 12:10,13

13:4,4,10
14:10,22 15:7 
16:1,16 17:25 
18:22 21:11
22:9,21 23:2 
23:21 24:10,16
25:16 32:18,19
32:23 33:2
34:5,12 35:22 
36:10,12 37:3 
42:15 50:11,18
51:7 56:20,21
judgment 27:12

46:13

juri 39:14
jurisprudence

35:11

juror 27:18
jury 22:14,25
24:4 29:10

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

minutes 54:3 
keep 8:1 
Kemna 8:10,13  Lee 8:10,13 21:1  majority 44:21  misconduct 
40:19 52:6 

making 36:21 

leading 28:25 

21:1 57:9 

54:4 

mistake 38:25 

39:25 

mistakes 3:22 
12:20 41:1,2 
56:24 

24:22 57:9 
legal 30:25 
legitimate 24:1  malodorous 

48:11 

52:11 

25:2 

35:21 

length 9:7 
let's 12:25 35:7 

mandate 4:3 
27:10 43:21 

mandated 3:25  mitigating 29:7 

47:9 

moment 14:13 
morning 3:4 

4:12,14 42:14  model 17:16 

liability 30:5,8 
limitations 43:9  manual 17:4 
Mapp 53:16 
limited 17:5 
massive 24:2 
limiting 28:2 
materially 43:18  Morris 1:3 3:4 
mathematics 
32:21 33:11 
34:18 36:2 
37:11 41:21,23 
41:24 42:5 
43:11 45:19 
51:5 52:24 
53:5 57:12 

48:7 
line 4:5 
list 51:1 
listed 14:15 
literally 23:1 
litigant 35:25 
litigation 4:2 
little 15:22 
50:10,18 

matter 1:14 9:23 

52:4 

13:12 18:10 
21:16 25:10,17 
25:18 28:21 
31:17 39:13 
40:25 44:11 
48:20 50:24 
51:4 52:15 
58:13 

Morris's 13:23 
13:24 34:25 
42:1 47:2 51:7 

Lo 55:4 
look 14:25 23:9 

matters 31:20 

move 38:10,10
26:9 29:3 
moved 22:11 
31:14 34:11 
36:1,19 37:20  MAYOLA 1:6  multiple 34:6 
39:23 42:3,15  mean 15:17 
43:5 44:4,16 
46:23 52:6,19 
54:10 

N

17:12 18:18 
19:10 26:5 
28:6 31:15 
32:13,24 46:5 
46:16,21,21
49:4,7 56:4,16 

means 28:10 

looked 14:18,23 
15:19,20,22,23 
15:24 19:8 
47:19 

N 2:1,1 3:1 
NAACP 19:24
name 21:9
natural 41:19
nature 33:12

52:18

49:4

necessarily 48:2

necessary 18:7
18:16 37:23

need 22:1 34:24 

42:1

needed 42:6
needing 51:6
neutral 46:19
never 3:19 4:16 
5:10 6:8 9:18 
15:8 16:16

33:10 36:24 
48:4 51:9 
54:16 55:2,13 
55:14 

key 56:13 

L
laid 3:18
land 45:3
language 6:1,5

8:24 17:15 
19:9,16 22:3 
32:3,5 34:1 
42:20 43:2 
44:12 45:20 
51:8 

Kennedy 37:7 
justice 3:3,9 4:4 
37:14,21 38:1 
49:9,13 50:10 
4:19 5:13 6:1,4 
6:16 7:14,18 
50:25 55:19 
7:25 8:22 9:11  kernel 44:18 
9:19,22 10:6 
10:11,16 11:12  kind 5:7 24:23 
know 5:13 6:1 
12:5,22 13:9 
13:18 14:4,12 
15:17 16:10,13 
17:2,12,22 
18:17,23 19:6 
19:14,16,23 
20:2,17,21 
21:5 23:3 24:7  knows 19:2,6 
24:14 25:13,20 
26:4,11 27:3,8 
27:21 28:13,14 
28:19 29:14 
30:6,11,16,19 
31:6,10,13 
32:6,15,19,23 
33:1,2,16,21 
35:3,10,14 
36:10 37:7,14 
37:21 38:1,10 
38:24 39:16,19 
40:8 41:7 42:8 
43:7 44:3,15 
45:2,5,22 46:4 
46:8,12,20,24 
47:6,11,23 
48:9 49:6,9,13 
49:22 50:1,6 
50:10,25 51:14 
52:7,10 53:10 
53:11,19 54:2 
54:6,7 55:7,19 
55:21 56:3,10 
56:16 57:10,18 
57:25 58:9 

law 4:8,22 5:10 
7:23 8:1 10:17 
15:6 17:6 
21:17 24:11 
25:5,5,17 29:8 
29:12 31:17,20 
32:9,11,21 
33:10 36:23 
37:2,15 38:16 
38:23 39:11,14 
40:4,10 41:2 
42:11 43:2,18 
43:23 48:13,20 
49:5,16 56:24 
57:5 

13:3 26:20
28:3,7,8 34:23 
Laughter 26:14

26:16,17 32:13 

lawyer 22:11 

39:21 46:6

Justice's 55:22 

lawyers 22:17 
23:18,22 24:8 
57:16 58:5 

K 

looks 14:24 16:1  mentioned 

16:3 

16:16 

mentions 15:8 
lose 24:16 
menu 18:15 
lost 14:3 
merely 22:11 
lot 19:7 43:4 
merit 36:1 53:7 
lots 47:18 
lower 8:19 9:8  merits 8:3,7,25

10:3 

lurking 48:19 

M

M 1:18 2:3,8 3:7 

9:15 41:13 
million 55:3,4

minute 20:4 

55:12 

52:13 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

50:22 

oh 24:13 25:16 
31:19 32:10 
37:14,14 56:8 
57:2 

Ohio 53:16 
okay 13:24 14:1 

19:15 26:6 
32:15 35:1 
47:20 49:22 

once 33:2 
one-sentence 
38:6 51:11 
onus 45:18 
operate 49:18 
opinion 4:7,18 
4:21 10:6,7 
14:9 27:19 
29:24 46:24 
47:18 48:3 

22:12 31:8 

new 22:5 35:7,8 
nice 47:23 
nine 4:2 
nonparties 

54:24 57:14 
nonresidents 

11:1 

non-parties 4:16 

12:15 13:15 
26:1 40:21 
47:16 

norm 56:2 
normal 56:7 
note 39:12 
notice 15:12 

57:6 

noting 42:3 
notion 17:2 
novel 20:6 
nullified 48:12 
nullifies 25:3 
nullify 48:21 
number 41:3 

43:13 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

50:3,7,20 51:3 
51:24 52:9,23 
53:14,20,22 

16:14 19:3 
39:3,7,13,25 
24:17 28:7 
40:10,19 41:6 
29:15,17,17,18 
42:3 43:9,18 
30:4 38:7 
43:20 45:24 
40:22 43:22,25  penalty 29:5 
46:10,16 47:1 
people 11:3 
47:17 48:2 
47:7,14,19 
perfect 7:10 
50:21,25 52:12 
53:1 56:22 
53:1,2,7,8 54:8  participants 
12:8,8 21:3 
29:2 

pen 42:10 

51:1 

organize 16:19 
original 44:16 
Osborne 22:3,3  particularly 
10:17 56:19 

23:18 24:22 
26:16 45:13,15  parties 10:14,21 

particular 6:21 

outcome 46:19 
out-of-State 

57:14,24 

overarching 

overlooked 45:7 

35:15 

45:8 

16:7 21:24 
30:1 33:13 
56:5 58:8 

29:6 30:2 
32:20 34:8 
40:6 

parts 17:18 26:5 

17:8 

permits 40:19 
permitting 28:2 
person 13:22,22 

17:13 18:22 

PERSONAL 1:7 
persons 36:8 
pertaining 16:8 

petition 18:19 

39:9 53:6 

Petitioner 1:4 
1:19 2:4,9 3:8 
35:18 54:5 

Petitioners 35:5 
Philip 3:4 13:23 

opinions 56:13  Owings 29:25 
opponent 10:8 
30:1 54:10 
opportunity 5:6 
33:11 53:5,23 

P

oppose 55:24 

party 4:25 5:16 

6:8 8:5 22:7 
28:8 30:5 
45:17 50:5 
passed 6:14 
pattern 16:7 

numbered 15:16  opposition 9:17 
oppositions 9:16 
option 58:4 
oral 1:14 2:2 3:7 

16:9,22 54:19 
57:5 

O 
O 2:1 3:1 
object 24:9 
objected 41:4 
objection 14:5 

objections 40:5 

15:3 

51:23 

obligatory 55:1 
occurred 6:11 
occurs 27:20 
odd 17:13 
offended 6:24 
offer 33:8 43:12 

45:17 

offered 30:3 
32:20 38:6 
offering 36:3 

27:6 

order 5:24 36:23 

38:21 40:20 
45:23 46:16 
48:17 

orders 46:14 
Oregon 3:11,16 
3:19,20 4:22 
5:6,17,17,19 
6:9,18,23 7:1 
7:15,16 8:6,7 
10:12 14:15 
15:6 16:4,24 
18:23 26:25 
27:25 28:3,5 
29:12 33:8 
34:7 36:3 37:6 
38:5,19,20 

P 3:1
page 2:2 13:1 

15:1,22 25:22 
36:18 39:8,12
55:9

pages 13:8
paper 12:19
15:13 17:1
25:12 42:10
50:18 57:7,8

papers 6:13 10:1 
paragraph 3:22

13:3 15:14
19:10,11 23:5 
23:5 54:19
56:22 57:6
58:1

paragraphs

16:8,21 19:21 

paraphrased

26:10

parcel 29:17
part 15:6,8

17:7,20,20,23 
33:14 57:17 
58:5 

13:24 32:20 
33:11 34:18,25
36:2 37:11 
41:21,23,24,25
42:5 43:11 
Peck 1:20 2:5 
45:19 47:2 
51:5,7 52:24 
27:5,6,8,24 
28:18 29:3,20 
53:5 57:11 
30:10,15,18,20  PHILLIP 1:3 
phrase 13:12 
31:9,11 32:3 
picky 44:7,7,8,8
32:14,16 33:1 
piece 12:19 
33:7,19 34:4 
35:9,13,23 
36:16 37:9,17 
37:25 38:3,17 
39:4,18,22 
40:17 41:19 
43:5,8 44:15 
45:4,12,22 
46:2,7,10,15 
46:23 47:5,10 
47:12,25 48:25 
49:12,15,25 

plaintiffs 23:13 
33:14 34:14,20
37:19 

15:13 16:25 
25:12 50:18 
57:7,8 

placed 22:20 
plaintiff 24:3 

place 7:14 28:22 

46:17 

36:9 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

25:3 26:21 
27:15 33:7 
39:23 40:12,23 
40:25 46:18 
47:15 52:3 
55:23 

produce 24:10 
proffered 33:9 

plaintiff's 17:10 

18:14 50:12 
platter 22:24 

23:20 

please 3:10 

15:17 24:21 
27:9 

28:8 41:14 
45:18 

presented 11:8 
11:17 41:20 
51:19 52:8,20 

preservation 

5:22 6:12 

point 8:15 10:20  preserve 26:24 

pressed 14:3 
pretty 17:12 
21:6 44:7 

12:17 13:7,10 
14:2,3,14,21 
14:21 17:6,8 
17:21 18:4,18 
20:16 22:23 
23:10 25:24,25  previous 11:6 
26:16,24 33:10 
36:12,21,21 
38:4 44:11 
56:18 57:10 
pointed 25:22 
pointless 20:11 

38:18 

45:3 

principle 26:22 

28:8 35:15 
45:18 

20:15,25


preserved 26:25  profit 44:6,6 
profits 23:10 
32:22 34:7 

40:5 

prohibition 4:15 

5:25 

promotes 24:4 
prong 13:2 
previously 11:8  proper 58:6 
principal 7:3 

properly 5:3 8:5 

pointlessly 21:2  prior 18:9 29:21  proportionality  put 8:2 17:8 
points 19:19 
portion 12:23 

36:20,25 37:10 

problem 4:20 

punish 34:13,14 

34:15 37:19 
40:19 51:9 
punishment 
4:15 13:15 
26:1 36:8 
40:21 54:24 
55:2,14 57:24 
punitive 13:5,20 

13:21 16:8 
17:8 34:19 
37:12 40:6 
51:18 55:11 

punitive-dam... 

55:3 

purporting 

48:16 

purpose 24:23 

25:2 33:22 
purposes 22:9


26:25 

18:21,22 31:24 
42:10 44:12 
58:6 

puts 45:18 

Q

35:18 54:20 
56:18 58:5 
quoted 26:20 
quotes 13:3 

R

R 3:1 
raise 6:6 9:1,2 

11:16 15:3 

raised 4:25 5:4 
5:16 6:18 8:5 
9:2 10:22
35:17 44:9
49:7 53:4,9
raising 7:20

48:12

ran 15:1 
range 55:5 
ratio 36:21 
reach 40:3,11

41:21,22 51:22 
52:21 55:23
56:23 

reached 19:18

23:8 39:1 

reaching 38:25 
reaction 56:17 
read 17:13

question 7:23 

18:24

18:18 22:25 
46:11 54:24
reading 12:10 

reads 4:6 19:7 
realize 7:25

8:1,1,2,20 9:6 
10:7,8 11:9,17 
11:17,20,21 
20:23 27:22 
31:21 32:16 
36:18,19 44:17  really 7:5 14:24 
16:4 20:3 22:2 
46:9 49:7 
22:16 23:13
51:18,20,22 
28:16,21 29:17 
52:8 53:12,15 
53:21 56:6,10 
35:5,21 43:3 
56:18
56:23 

questioning 

20:18 

questions 10:17 

10:17 27:1 
42:2 52:20 

quite 4:11 20:6 
25:15 28:15 

reason 8:25 9:4 
11:12,13 12:3 
15:11 18:20
21:23 24:18
25:11 35:1,23 
42:5 47:13
reasonable

49:17 50:4 

proponent 28:6 
proportion 

54:15 

proposal 21:4 
22:4 23:13 

propose 23:19 

26:17 

proposed 22:10

22:12,23 26:19 
30:22 33:13 
54:11 

6:6 14:13 
28:13 31:24 
48:9 49:6 

problems 47:21 
procedural 

11:20 27:15 
39:1 41:9,11 
41:16 46:17 
48:13 51:22 

55:7 

portions 23:7 
position 5:1,4 

6:7 14:11 
18:21,22 57:19


post-verdict 

power 52:24 

37:1 

53:16 

33:12 

practical 25:10 

practice 16:18 

17:4 41:8 

proposition 
procedure 27:14 
30:25 31:1 
protect 51:15 
27:20,22 28:1 
protected 51:21 
33:20 38:13 
46:19 48:5,6,7  protection 13:14 
56:4 

26:1 49:17 
54:23,25 55:15 
55:16 

provide 44:24 

48:5 

precedent 23:6 

procedures 

25:4 28:6 

51:16 

preceding 46:25  proceeding 
precise 57:12 
prefer 56:5 
prejudice 35:11 

22:12 

35:16 49:10 

prepared 46:15 

52:2 

presentation 

proceedings 4:6  provided 54:8 
process 3:14 
54:23 55:17 
provides 49:16 
6:25 11:18 
providing 48:6 
17:21 18:4 
21:23 22:6 
23:14 24:2,5 

prudent 49:2 

54:25 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

review 33:20,25 
reviewing 50:1 
requested 28:2  Reyes-Camar... 

18:12 21:21 
22:21 23:14 
26:3 27:18,20 
28:4 29:6,6,6 
34:7 35:5 39:7 

31:7,8 36:3,7 
requests 15:16 

28:11 58:2 
require 24:8 
33:15 48:16 
required 7:13 

22:5,6,13 

requires 12:4,14 

39:23 

requiring 13:16 
researched 21:6 
reserve 27:2 
resolve 4:8 
resolving 11:24 
respect 5:3 

37:12 

37:4 38:7 

reversible 41:5 

43:17 

29:4 

right 6:21 7:7 
8:5 9:1 11:24 
12:17 14:10 
15:7 19:10 
21:9 24:3,15 
24:15 30:4,19 
32:11 33:22 
36:15 43:14 
44:11 45:4 
47:19 49:14 
50:5 55:5,19 

rights 3:14 25:3 

risk 27:17 34:22 

25:6 

48:4 

reasonableness 

15:12 

55:13 

reasons 7:6 8:8 
REBUTTAL 

2:7 54:4 

recall 11:1 24:21 
recognize 53:15 
record 12:9,22 

28:5 35:24 
37:18 

Reeve 54:9 
referred 3:23 

54:9,22 

referring 6:2,4 

55:8 

refused 3:21 

29:13 

refusing 24:17 
regularly 50:8 
rehired 45:10 
reject 38:21 
rejected 7:11 

14:8,9,11 34:5 
relevant 35:19 
relied 39:3 
rely 38:14 40:12 

41:10 

relying 38:18 
remaining 54:3 
remand 3:12 
5:10,24 8:19 
45:23,24 46:13 
46:16 47:6,25 
50:2 

remanded 3:17 
8:17 9:8 10:2 
47:24 

remember 30:6 

31:15 

41:16,17 44:1 
44:14,21,25 
50:4,15,17,17 
51:6 52:13,14 
57:4 

ruled 9:20 25:17 
ruling 7:8 14:1 
16:19 32:24 
34:3 36:11 
38:5 

run 16:14 18:19 
runaround 43:1 

S

S 1:20 2:1,5 3:1 

27:6

sake 35:7
sandbagging

53:2

satisfied 35:2
satisfy 26:22
48:8 50:8
saved 43:3
saying 5:5,13,24

13:10,12,25
16:19 26:7,21
26:21 37:15,17
39:4 40:9
43:13,21 44:4 
44:5 52:19

says 11:10 13:3 
13:4,6 16:11 
16:14 19:15
24:3 27:13,16
28:6 31:19
32:10 33:25
34:19,25 36:7 
36:22,23,25
37:2 41:17
46:22

SCALIA 9:11

10:6 32:23
33:2,16 45:22 
46:8,12,20,24
47:6,11,23
school 52:4
Schwarz 38:6

51:12 

sea 21:14 
second 7:3 11:17 

13:2 36:22 
51:18 52:8 
53:12 56:6 
secondly 8:15 
see 12:25 17:19 
25:9 40:9 49:6 
54:11 

selling 45:3 
send 19:14 
31:19 32:9 
sentence 31:1 
36:7 57:19 

sentences 30:23 

30:24 

separate 8:16 

9:7 12:19 
15:13 16:21,25
18:10 22:18 
25:12 30:23 
57:7,8

separated 25:19 
separately 15:16 

16:21 18:8,8
23:15 29:9 
54:19 57:5 

September

34:16 

sequence 4:23 

5:20 48:23 
49:3 

served 23:19 
serves 25:1 

set 22:13 45:25 

50:10 

47:7 

sets 34:8 
severe 21:3,3

24:25 

severity 20:11 

20:15,25

Shapiro 1:18 2:3 
2:8 3:6,7,9 4:4 
4:10 5:9,22 6:3 
6:10 7:2,16,22 

2:5 27:6 

respecting 39:14  ROBERT 1:20 
respects 4:13 
6:18,22 9:15 
10:22 12:9 
20:9 27:11 
28:12 31:4 
38:21 43:24 
44:23 50:15,17 
57:4 

ROBERTS 3:3 
11:12 27:3,21 
33:21 38:10,24 
39:16,19 40:8 
41:7 51:14 
52:7,10 53:19 
54:2 56:3 58:9 

Respondent 

1:21 2:6 27:7 
response 18:25 
48:15 55:21 
responsibility 

44:24 

rest 19:12,15 
26:3 56:24 
resurrected 

Rose 29:25 
routine 38:12 

41:8 

rule 4:13 7:11 

8:4,11 9:15,22 
10:24 14:16 
16:14 19:2,2,6 
20:4,6,6,9,25 
21:8 24:8,12 
24:19,23,25 
25:5 28:3,4,11 
33:18,19,20,23 
34:17 35:5,7,8 
38:2,4,9,12,15 
38:20 39:1,6 
40:10 41:9,11 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

repeatedly 7:23 
reply 7:20 
retrial 22:13 
REPRESENT...  return 55:2 

48:21 

1:7 

reprint 30:23 
request 3:23 

8:20,21 15:14 

returned 51:7 
returns 37:11 
retype 22:24 
reversed 22:5 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

sit 46:13 
sitting 15:25 

9:24 10:9,14 
10:20 11:4,23 
12:13,25 13:13  situation 15:15 
16:25 23:25 
13:25 14:6 
15:11 16:6,12 
28:17 31:23 
16:17 17:7,19 
32:17 52:17 
17:24 19:5,13 
19:16 20:1,7 
20:20,23 21:18

23:9 24:13,21 
25:16,23 26:8

26:13,15 27:4

54:3,4,6 55:9 
55:24 56:8 
57:2,13,21 
58:3,11 

situations 11:14 
skeptical 15:18 
skips 6:5 
slight 11:6 
slightly 21:14 
smoker 36:2 
solicitous 41:22 
Sorenson 44:16 

45:2 54:10 

share 17:14 
Shepardized 

21:13 

shoes 31:25 
show 3:13 
showed 45:19 
side 5:4,5 9:1 
12:24 14:15 
35:22 

sides 17:9 
side's 18:1 
significance 
8:23 56:21 
significant 

27:11,17 34:10

35:25 48:4 
silentio 6:14 

10:10 

silver 22:24 

23:19 

similar 6:11 
19:17 45:12 
simple 54:11 

57:12,19 

simply 4:16 5:18 
6:5 7:12 22:25 
23:22 48:11 
49:3 52:19 
single 16:2,15 
29:6,23 54:12 
58:1 

sorry 40:8 
sort 14:24 15:20 
sorts 25:7 
sound 14:4 
sounds 34:17 

37:7 

SOUTER 4:19 

5:13 6:1,4 7:14 
7:18,25 8:22 
13:18 14:4 
48:9 49:6,22 
50:1,6 

so-called 31:7 
speaking 18:17 
specific 4:1 5:24 
9:8 12:7 23:17 
28:5,6 49:3 

specifically 55:8 
sprung 20:3 
squarely 11:9 
stage 6:13 
stand 52:2 
standard 3:17 
3:18 4:15,16 
5:10,25 8:18 
21:15 31:15 
43:2 45:25 
47:2,7 

started 18:14 
starts 13:2 
State 4:5,8,8,22 
5:10 6:15 8:13 

36:12 

44:11 

subject 12:10 

subsequently 

subjective 56:17 
submit 15:13 
25:11 27:24 

9:14,19 10:17 
10:25 11:3,19 
12:2,4 14:6 
16:19,23 18:9 
20:7,12,14 
21:16,19 22:17  submitted 7:10 
12:19 50:14,17 
24:1,3,6,7,23 
27:12,20 31:20 
58:10,13 
32:10,13,25 
36:6 38:12,23 
39:2,11 40:1,4 
40:14,18,24 
41:16 42:11,23 
43:2 46:13 
48:5,13,16,20 
48:23 49:1,5 
49:16,18 52:14  sufficient 26:23 
52:15 55:17,18  sufficiently 22:8 
55:20 56:1,24 
57:23 58:3 
stated 12:24 
37:18 56:12 
58:1 

11:21 25:17 
39:6 41:2,10 
47:17 51:6,17 

substantial 56:1 
substantive 

45:13 55:5 
suggesting 

suggested 28:15 

suffered 36:8 

suggest 49:1 

50:20 

States 1:1,15 
27:13 44:21 
State-law 53:4 
stating 57:19 
statute 16:23 

34:7 39:8 
40:19,23 41:6 
43:8 

statutory 54:20 
steep 5:7 
STEPHEN 1:18 
2:3,8 3:7 54:4 
STEVENS 9:19 

9:22 12:5,22 
13:9 20:17,21 
25:13,20 28:13 
35:3,10,14 
36:10 

53:11,14 55:14 

suggestion 

55:22 

suggests 34:23 
suit 43:9 
Sullivan 6:11 
9:25 10:10

sum 55:11 
support 24:1 

29:1 

supported 24:23 
supporting 

44:10 

suppose 6:17,19 

6:22 11:12 
14:22 42:10 
56:4 

supposed 21:15 
stop 32:24 36:20  supreme 1:1,15 
striking 42:20 
3:16 4:5,22 5:6 
strong 22:16 
5:17,18,19 6:9 
sub 6:14 10:10 
6:19,23 7:1,15 
subheadings 
7:16 8:6,7 
10:12 18:23 

22:18 

19:18 20:3,5 
20:12,14 28:1 
38:20 42:3 
43:20 45:25 
46:10,16 47:1 
47:7,14 49:2 
49:18,20,20 
50:21 51:1

52:12 53:1,8 

sure 18:20

surprise 7:8

sympathy 29:11 

29:15,21 

T

T 2:1,1
take 24:8 56:18 
taken 12:11,20 

57:3 

takes 7:2 8:10 
talked 29:21 
talking 10:25 
42:13 47:3
51:16

tell 21:14 25:13 

29:14 31:25
36:24 48:2
51:8 52:5
56:16 

telling 23:22 

48:22 

test 56:11 
thank 3:9 27:3 
54:1,2,6 58:9 
58:11 

theory 4:1
thereof 17:14 
thing 16:2 19:24 

30:8 33:4 
42:22,23 
things 28:20
34:10 47:19
51:8 

think 5:1 8:2 
10:21 11:13
12:9 13:4,10
13:11 16:1,6

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

18:6,20 20:19 
20:21 21:6,9 
22:15 23:4,6 
24:5 25:4,8,11 
26:6,8 28:24

29:1 31:5,15 
33:22 34:10 
35:9,24 37:5,9 
38:9,24 39:16 
39:19 41:7,19 
42:2 43:5 45:5 
46:7,10 47:13 
47:13 48:9 
49:15,17 50:21 
51:8,9 55:20 
57:1 

third 30:5 31:1 
thoroughly 21:7 
thought 11:18 

12:10 17:2 
18:19 19:1,23 
21:2 25:20 
29:16,17 37:17

38:18 40:1,2 
42:12 44:20 
47:15 53:19,20 

three 7:5 8:3 
30:22 54:3,9 

throw 33:4 
thrust 12:6 
time 4:2 6:23 
9:17,20 11:2 
11:16 19:9 
27:2 30:3 35:6 
35:17 37:15 
42:5 43:19 
44:20 49:10,11 
50:5 51:25 
52:14 56:20,25 
57:3 

timely 9:3 28:4 
times 8:3,16 9:7 

9:12 

tip 16:18 
today 3:11 43:10 

52:8 

told 16:7 17:8 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

18:5 53:20 
55:2 

topic 54:12 57:5 
traditional 

28:11 

trial 7:11 8:11 

ultimate 56:11 
ultimately 9:5 

13:19 

unanimously 

20:10,15 

uncertain 41:12 
unconstitutio... 

11:22 31:18 

22:1 25:15 
32:14 35:13 
49:15 52:9 
56:20 

12:9,10,13 
13:10 14:10 
16:16 18:11,21  understand 14:1 
22:1,5,8,21 
23:2,21 29:13 
32:18,19,23 
33:2,8,17,19 
33:24 34:2,5 
34:12 35:6,22 
36:2,10,12,23 
37:22 38:11 
41:3 43:12,16 
43:22 50:11 

unified 40:6 
United 1:1,15 

understanding 

unfavorable 

19:3 

4:7 

violate 32:10 

43:21 

violates 32:8 
violation 24:5 

W

waited 52:12
waived 4:24
Walther 30:21
want 8:24 12:5 

15:18 22:23
25:25 37:4
38:14 45:21
50:18

wanted 28:23
30:13 45:7
warning 54:8
Washington

1:11,20

wasn't 7:12 9:9 
17:3,15 18:13 
22:20 25:17 
30:8 56:3

wax 16:4
way 16:20 30:14 

33:15 41:15
43:5 45:6 
48:14,22 49:23 
51:15 53:3

ways 15:2
Wednesday

1:12

weight 35:3,8
went 26:5 39:5 

work 23:21 
41:18,18 

working 17:10 

23:12


worry 30:12 
wouldn't 7:18 
17:15 24:20 
25:18 37:16 
55:24 

wrong 3:16 6:21 

6:22 16:15 
19:4,10,11
24:17 29:16,17
30:9 40:1,25 
46:5,21 47:1 
47:11,12,13,14 
47:17,20

wrote 17:13 
ws 26:7 
X
x 1:2,10
Y

years 4:2 8:10 

8:10 20:8
21:20

Z
zero 23:23
zone 55:13

0

07-1216 1:5 3:4 

1 

1 14:25 16:3 

19:10,11 34:16 
39:9

10:02 1:16 3:2 
105 28:3 
11:04 58:12
16a 36:19
17 13:8
17a 13:1 36:18 
18a 13:8
19a 34:19
1916 44:16 

44:21 

unnecessarily 

21:3 24:24

unnecessary 

unreasonable 

23:11 

44:13 

unrelated 3:24 
urge 44:15 
urged 51:5 
USA 1:3 
use 21:15 28:9 
U.S 49:20 57:5 

V 

trials 39:14 
tried 17:24 
trigger 51:5 
trip 49:19 
trouble 33:5 

43:4 

true 11:4 17:22 

20:22 40:13 
56:9 57:15,18 
57:21 

truly 25:2 
trusted 49:21 
truth 21:14 
try 42:9 
trying 6:5 37:5 

turn 9:9 11:25 

42:9 

34:12 

turned 13:22 
twice 9:16 21:13 
two 8:8 12:20 
15:2 28:20 
29:5 30:2 
32:12 33:24 
34:9 44:4 
type 50:18 
U 

41:13

we're 11:24,25

v 1:5 3:4 8:10,13 

39:22 51:20
21:1,19 29:25  weren't 35:17
30:21 36:6,22  We'll 3:3
51:12 53:16 
vacated 3:15 
valid 54:14 
various 25:5 
54:7 56:12 
verdict 38:7 
verdicts 24:4 
versus 23:12 
view 12:16,24 
14:14 18:18 

win 42:10
words 42:24

3:5 10:24 11:1 
34:16 39:9
40:5 41:25
43:11 53:4

we've 23:23
Williams 1:6,9

69 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

1944 30:21

1988 34:16


2


2 14:25 16:3 
20a 34:21 
2000 29:4,4 
2002 36:4 45:19 

57:11 

2006 16:18 
2008 1:12 
21a 34:12 36:1 
27 2:6 
28 14:15,18 15:8 
15:9,12 17:13 
20:5 28:14,16 
44:10 

28a 37:20 
3

3 1:12 2:4 
32(a) 14:23 

15:22 

34 6:21 16:9 

17:9 26:3 41:3 
43:13 
37a 55:9 
38 56:17 
4

48a 39:8 
5

52a 39:12 
54 2:9 

6


60 20:8


9


92-year-old 

28:11 

70 

Alderson Reporting Company 

