Official - Subject to Final Review

   IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JACK DAVIS,                       :
            Appellant             :
       v.                         :  No. 07-320
FEDERAL ELECTION                  :
COMMISSION                        :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Tuesday, April 22, 2008

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ANDREW D. HERMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
   of the Appellant.
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General,
   Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf
   of the Appellee.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                   C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
ANDREW D. HERMAN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Appellant                        3
GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Appellee                        25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ANDREW D. HERMAN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Appellant                       54

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                            (10:02 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
first today in Case 07-320, Davis v. The Federal
Election Commission.
Mr. Herman.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. HERMAN
               ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT
            MR. HERMAN:  Mr. Chief Justice and may it
please the Court:
            This case involves the constitutional
question of whether the government may regulate the
personal spending of a candidate on behalf of his own
campaign.  This is an activity that constitutes
political expression at the core of the First Amendment,
yet BCRA Section 319 seeks to deter and, failing that,
penalizes such protected political expression.  Even if
this Court finds that the harms upon speech of Section
319 are modest, the provision still fails to satisfy any
constitutional standard.  It furthers no legitimate
governmental purpose and conversely increases the undue
influence of contributions upon Federal candidates.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  There is no
restriction whatsoever on the wealthier candidate.  He
can spend as much of his money as he wants.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. HERMAN:  That's correct, Your Honor.
The harm from Section 319 is that he is burdened from
the beginning of his campaign throughout every step with
the knowledge that any time he spends money he is going
to be providing his opponent with an advantage; he is
going to be enhancing his opponent's speech.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, what if, for
example, somebody takes out a television ad that says
smoking this type of cigarette is actually, is not
harmful to you.  The government is free to take out a
contrary ad saying, no, it is and so you shouldn't do
it, right?
            MR. HERMAN:  Of course, Mr. Chief Justice.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So governmental
responses to the exercise of free speech are not
automatically -- don't automatically burden the exercise
of that speech.
            MR. HERMAN:  That is absolutely correct,
Mr. Chief Justice.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well then, why does
it burden it for the government to make it easier for
private citizens to respond to that speech.
            MR. HERMAN:  Well, Mr. Chief Justice, it's
making it easier for a self-financed candidate's
opponent to respond to that speech.  In essence, what

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Section 319 says is, we are going to make it easier for
your opponent to beat you.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Herman, can the
government respond to political speech?  The government
can have a position on smoking cigarettes, it can have a
position on a lot of things, but can it have a position
on whether the Republican Party or the Democratic Party
should win the next election?
            MR. HERMAN:  Absolutely not, Justice Scalia.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Isn't that a distinction
here?
            MR. HERMAN:  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What case supports
that proposition?
            MR. HERMAN:  That the government cannot
take --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Government can't
engage in political speech.
            MR. HERMAN:  Your Honor, Buckley is on --
there is not anything --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How is the government
speaking?  You have already acknowledged that the
wealthy candidate can spend as much as he or she wants
and the end result of this scheme is that there will be
more, not less, speech because the non-affluent opponent

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

will now have money to spend that he didn't have before.
So I think you have to concede that overall the scheme
will produce more political speech, not less.
            MR. HERMAN:  Well, Justice Ginsburg, I can't
concede that, and this is the reason why.  If Section
319 operates as it's intended to, it will deter
self-financed candidates from ever reaching that
$350,000 threshold and triggering the, quote unquote,
"more speech."  What it is really designed to do at
every single step --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Has it done it?  I mean,
we do have some experience under the statute now.
            MR. HERMAN:  We have very little experience
under the statute, Justice --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well your clients -- wasn't
your client's latest filing that he intended to spend a
million dollars.
            MR. HERMAN:  For the 2006 campaign?
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  I think that's --
            MR. HERMAN:  That is correct.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  So it didn't deter him.
You're in the position in which it clearly didn't deter
your client.  He says, I'm going to spend three times as
much as the threshold figure, and there is no empirical
evidence that it's deterring anybody else.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. HERMAN:  Well, Justice Souter, in fact
it did deter my client.  If you look at his election in
its totality, his opponent spent over $5 million.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Do we usually evaluate
restrictions on First Amendment rights on the basis of
whether the chill that was imposed by the government was
actually effective in stifling the right?
            MR. HERMAN:  No, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  If the person goes ahead
and speaks anyway, is he estopped from saying that the
government was chilling his speech nonetheless?
            MR. HERMAN:  Absolutely not, Justice Scalia.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Isn't that's what's going
on here?
            MR. HERMAN:  Absolutely.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Don't we expect a chill
argument to at least have a ring of plausibility?  And
your chill argument is that it is deterring.  It didn't
deter your client.  There is no indication that it would
deter anybody else and I have to say I don't see why it
would.
            MR. HERMAN:  Justice Souter, respectfully, I
don't think that you can categorically say that it did
not deter my client when he was outspent by $3 million
in that campaign.  As he went through the campaign

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

against his --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  You mean if the -- if the
other side had not had an enhanced spending capacity,
your client would then have spent $2 million?
            MR. HERMAN:  Your Honor, he actually did
spend $2 million.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Whatever it is, I mean are
you saying that if the -- if the client -- if the
opposing party had not had an enhanced spending capacity
your client would have spent even more?
            MR. HERMAN:  Potentially.  Potentially.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  That seems to substantiate
the, at least the ostensible basis for this statute.
            MR. HERMAN:  Your Honor, if the basis for
the statute is to, quote unquote, "level the playing
field," to equalize the candidates, I haven't received
an explanation from the government or from the district
court that explains how a statute designed to do that
would have allowed my client's opponent to have raised
another $1.4 million even though he had already outspent
my opponent by $3 million.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Is there any reason to think
that this statute will have any greater or different
effect of Mr. Davis in the upcoming election than it did
in the last election?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. HERMAN:  There is, Justice Alito.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Why?
            MR. HERMAN:  Because his incumbent opponent
from the last two elections has announced his retirement
and so Mr. Davis will now be facing very likely primary
challengers, and then if he were to prevail in the
primary he'll be meeting a non-incumbent challenger in
the general election as well.  So it's an open seat.
            And again, one of the great deficiencies of
319 is that it fails to take into account any of the
advantages of incumbency, not just the financial
advantages but the inherent advantage that each and
every incumbent brings to an election when he or she
runs for re-election, the fact that the incumbent has
much greater status as --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  The government says that in
fact more and quite a bit more incumbents went over the
$350,000 personal funding limits than non-incumbents.
Something like -- I don't know, 14-2 or something like
that in the last election, is that right?
            MR. HERMAN:  First of all, the statistics
here are incomplete because basically the briefing in
this case was concluded in early September of 2006,
before a lot of primaries occurred for the 2006 House
election.  And so I think referring to those numbers --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the FEC has never -- we've never received any additional
numbers for the effect, but --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it was a four-year
record and the numbers are rather startling that -- is
it 110 senators or representatives qualified for the
enhanced contributions and only 6 of them were
incumbents?
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes.
            MR. HERMAN:  The other number that was cited
is that only 2 of 60 incumbents actually triggered the
Millionaires' Amendment in those --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of course, that could mean
that the millionaires have already been elected and are
now pulling up the ladder after them.
            (Laughter.)
            MR. HERMAN:  That's certainly our argument,
Justice Scalia.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Right.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, if that's so, one
of the reasons that has been given for this statute is
that it encourages the parties to favor the wealthier
candidates; it deters people who are non-affluent but
highly meritorious.  So -- and it gives the public the
perception that the seats in our Congress are there to
be bought by the wealthiest bidder.  And if there's

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

anything to that -- well, do you reject that out of hand
as what the statute is all about?
            MR. HERMAN:  Justice Ginsburg, I believe
that the -- the fact that the statute expands the
supposedly anti-corruptive $2300 to $6900 and allows a
national party to make coordinated communications of an
unlimited amount in response to the, what Buckley called
"ameliorative speech" by a self-financer, would also
increase the perception that -- that our candidates are
there to be bought.  It seems to me that if Mr. Davis
had sat down and read all of this Court's jurisprudence
before he decided to run, he wouldn't have seen a word
in there about leveling the playing field.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But I thought -- I
thought your brief -- and correct me if I'm wrong --
said at one stage that there is -- what Congress was
driving at is a valid concern, but there are less
restrictive alternatives.  And I was trying to find what
those less restrictive alternatives were.
            MR. HERMAN:  Well, Justice Ginsburg, I can
think of one off the top of my head which is not this
case, and that's public funding.  If Congress were truly
concerned about providing a boost to minor party
candidates who may not be able to raise the $2300 to
begin with, much less take advantage of the benefits of

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

319, or wanted to boost self-financed candidates who,
say, like Mr. DeRossett in the amicus brief, in his
amicus brief, who mortgaged his house or others who have
encumbered their pensions and raised $350,000 or
$400,000 and then triggered the amendment, if they
wanted to foster all of those people of modest means to
participate, then the easiest way and the way sanctioned
by this Court in Buckley is to institute a public
funding system and allow them to choose.  They can raise
private funds if they'd like; they could do it
personally with their own money; or they could take
whatever amount that the -- that the State was willing
to give them --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But that wouldn't level the
playing field.  I mean, the other side, the millionaire,
won't take the public funding and he'll spend his
millions and whoever gets the public funding -- or are
you saying the public funding should match whatever the
other side pays?
            MR. HERMAN:  No, Your Honor --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well then --
            MR. HERMAN:  But this Court's analysis in
Buckley -- the public funding analysis in Buckley does
not center on leveling the playing field or providing
equality for all candidates.  It --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Do you think that's a valid
constitutional objective, to level the playing field?
            MR. HERMAN:  I --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Do you think we should
trust our incumbent senators and representatives to
level the playing field for us?
            (Laughter.)
            MR. HERMAN:  Absolutely not, Justice Scalia.
And there's a reason why there's a distinction between
an anti-corruptive purpose and a
leveling-the-playing-field purpose.  When Congress
legislates to deal with the actuality or appearance of
corruption, they are legislating uniformly and they're
not taking an interest in the outcome, in the
competitiveness.  When they are talking about leveling
the playing field, one of the players on that playing
field are incumbent members of Congress.  It's like
saying that we're going to trust basketball players not
-- to call their own out-of-bounds plays.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But isn't there something
different between what the statute was at the time of
Buckley, that a lid on, you can't spend more than X
amount of money, and a statute that says we're going to
let you spend, the sky is the limit for you, but we're
going to give a boost to your opponent?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. HERMAN:  Justice Ginsburg, in Buckley
there -- there was no lid on personal expenditures.  The
Court struck down that aspect of Buckley and upheld the
public funding provision.  So the Court was --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I'm talking about the
statute as it was originally enacted by Congress did
have expenditure limits and this Court said that was no
good.  This statute doesn't have that problem because it
doesn't put a lid on the candidates self-financing.
            MR. HERMAN:  That's correct, Your Honor.
But -- but again, if you're going to make a comparison
to the public funding system in Buckley that was
approved by this Court, that system was indifferent to
the -- the source or the amount of funds.  All the Court
said there -- or the equality -- that that statute was
indifferent to whether the playing field was level.  All
-- all Buckley said and all Congress said in enacting
the public funding was we want to take the allegedly
corruptive private funds out of the system, and we want
to replace it with public funds and --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Even if -- even if leveling
the playing field is not generally a compelling or maybe
even a permissible interest, is it a stronger interest
when one of the reasons why the playing field is not
level is other action that Congress has taken?  If there

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

weren't expenditure limits, then self-financed
candidates wouldn't perhaps have as much of an advantage
as they do.  So if we accept the world in which
contribution limits are constitutional, it -- does that
provide a basis for Congress to try to rectify at least
in part what it itself has done by imposing the
contribution limits?
            MR. HERMAN:  Justice Alito, leveling the
playing field is -- I'm not quite sure how Congress
would start to do that without implicating their own
interest.  When you say that you're going to level the
playing field, Congress has to look at the whole playing
field.  They can't just carve out a section that applies
to other people and not talk about their interest in
leveling the playing field.  I think it's a very
difficult road to go down.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What we're talking about in
leveling the playing field, I guess, is leveling the
amount of speech that each side has, to make sure that
each side has the same amount of speech.  Is that -- is
that what's going on here?
            MR. HERMAN:  Well, it's an attempt to do
that.  And again, in Buckley this Court said that --
that Congress has no interest in determining whether
speech is excessive or unwise or wasteful.  That's --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that's ultimately the purview for the voters, and that's
really the fallacy in 319 at its heart, is there's no
such thing as secret self-funders.  They will --
everything that they do is disclosed in the same way
that all other expenditures and contributions are
disclosed in quarterly and pre-election reports.
Certainly, in many cases, their opponents are going to
make the case that this wealthy person is out of touch,
they don't represent the district, your vote is not to
be bought.  And then ultimately the voters will have the
determination on what kind of candidate they want.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Are we -- are we talking
wealthy people here?  What's the average price of a home
in the United States?  I think it's a good deal above
$350,000, isn't it?
            MR. HERMAN:  It certainly is in this area
and in many congressional districts in the United
States.  And that's a very good point, Justice Scalia.
This provision affects less -- about a quarter of what
it costs to run a competitive race in 2006.  So
certainly it's not as if Congress said, well, if you
spend some disproportionate amount of money to a
congressional race, if you go ten times over what it
should cost, we're going to step in.  They said --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You don't think that

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

would be any more constitutional than this, do you?
            MR. HERMAN:  I think it would be equally
unconstitutional, Mr. Chief Justice.  But if you're
talking about the tailoring of the statute, I think that
that is certainly something that's relevant.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'd like to ask about the
provisions of the statute which allow the candidate who
doesn't have the personal funds -- what was the name of
the challenger in this case?  Not Davis -- Reynolds?
            MR. HERMAN:  Tom Reynolds.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Reynolds -- - to receive,
is it, unlimited contributions from his own party?
            MR. HERMAN:  He can receive up to 100
percent of whatever that OPFA number is -- the --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Yes.
            MR. HERMAN:  -- the purported difference in
funds.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Suppose you had a statute
which either explicitly said or has the effect, as this
does, that the less wealthy challenger, the challenger
in Reynolds' position, has more access and more support
from his party than the challenger does from his party?
What is your best case that indicates that that is
unconstitutional, and what is your argument that that is
unconstitutional?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. HERMAN:  I'm sorry, Justice Kennedy?
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  That concerns me in this.
What is your best argument that differential treatment
of the candidates vis-a-vis support from their
respective parties is unconstitutional?
            MR. HERMAN:  Well, again, Your Honor, if
you're making a distinction -- when you talk about the
--
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  The statute makes that
distinction.
            MR. HERMAN:  Well, the statute talks about
the less wealthy candidate.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And it seems to me that
that distinction is somewhat questionable, and I'm
asking you for your best statement of the theory as to
why it's unconstitutional and your best case to show
that it's unconstitutional.
            MR. HERMAN:  The best argument, Justice
Kennedy, is that money and speech are synonymous in an
electoral context, and it's inappropriate for the
government to say that you, as the purportedly wealthier
candidate, have too much speech; that that's enough
speech from you.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But you make that argument
to the statute generally.  Is there any more specific

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

argument that you can make in the context of the less
well-funded candidate having more support from the party
than the well-funded candidate had?
            MR. HERMAN:  Well --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  It seems to me that that's
a particular vice of the statute, and I want to know if
there is a formulation that's more precise than the
general attack that you made -- that you make.
            MR. HERMAN:  I --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Could you clarify with
respect to that question two things:  The party is not
at liberty to give anything it wants.  You explained
that it would be -- it's tied to that formula.  So the
wealthy person could still have a lot more to spend.
But the party also is -- there's no obligation of the
party to give one cent to anybody that it doesn't choose
to give money to; is that right?
            MR. HERMAN:  No, Justice Ginsburg.  Of
course, the party would have to make a determination if
they felt that this person was --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But the party for the less
well-funded candidate has the option to have much closer
ties, much greater involvement, than the party for the
other candidate; and that seems to me highly
problematic.  And I want to know the best case that you

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

have for that proposition and the best statement of law
that can you give me for why that is unconstitutional.
            MR. HERMAN:  Well, Justice Kennedy, if you
refer to Colorado II, where this Court talked about the
facts that -- where this Court upheld limitations on
party, unlimited party- coordinated communications,
because that -- allowing the party to do so would raise
the possibility of evading the contribution limits.  And
so accordingly they upheld the 42 -- the $42,000 limit
on coordinated communication.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, you said
earlier that money is -- money is speech in this area.
So I take it you think that the restrictions, otherwise
applicable restrictions on the less wealthy candidate,
raise problems under the First Amendment?
            MR. HERMAN:  Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So this law eases
those problematic restrictions.  It's less violative of
the First Amendment.
            MR. HERMAN:  It is less violative of the
First Amendment, but, again, this Court has made the
distinction between contribution limits, which it found
was a reasonable burden on the Constitution, and
expenditure limits, which -- which are not.  This --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It doesn't limit those

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

restrictions on your candidate.
            MR. HERMAN:  It does not limit the
restrictions.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It simply makes the
imposition of the restrictions uneven.
            MR. HERMAN:  That is, that is correct.  But
--
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but your
candidate isn't subject to any restriction at all on
what he can spend and his opponent is subject to less
restrictions.  It seems to me the First Amendment comes
out better.
            MR. HERMAN:  He is -- my candidate, my
client, is subject to restrictions.  The statute in its
entirety --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Why can't he go out and
raise funds?  Does the statute prohibit him from raising
funds from third parties?
            MR. HERMAN:  Absolutely not, Justice
Stevens.  But for many -- for many self-financed
candidates, the fact that --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Doesn't it prohibit -- I
thought it prohibited him from raising funds in the
amount from as wealthy donors as his opponent can now go
to?  Don't those limits on contributions continue to

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

apply to him?
            MR. HERMAN:  The contribution limits apply
to him as they would to any other candidate except for
his opponent.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And he cannot have the
support from his party that the opponent can have from
the opponent's party.
            MR. HERMAN:  He cannot have the same level
of support.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Not the same level of
support.
            MR. HERMAN:  That's correct.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And is party support
sometimes important in an election?
            MR. HERMAN:  Of course, it can be vital in
an election, and it can be vital for a candidate who may
be a candidate of modest means.  That would be certainly
one way for them to generate support.  Did he convince
their party that they were worthy of that support?
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Does anything in Colorado
indicate that there can be a differential between the
party support given to one candidate and the party
support given to the other?
            MR. HERMAN:  Not -- only as determined by
the party's decision as to how they feel about the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

candidate's positions.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, but they certainly
can allocate funds more generously to one candidate than
another; can't they?
            MR. HERMAN:  They certainly have that
opportunity, but under -- under a limit, under the
$42,000 limit, as opposed to essentially an infinite
limit when you're dealing with a self- funded candidate.
            And incidentally, Justice Stevens, to
address something else that you just brought up, for
many self-financed candidates the fact that they don't
take money from their party or from donors or from PACs
is a significant issue for them in their campaign.  I
mean certainly for Mr. Davis, the fact that he is
independent and can make his own determinations --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Who is more incorruptible
than the millionaire, right?
            MR. HERMAN:  He is the ultimate independent.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  The ultimate incorruptible.
            (Laughter.)
            MR. HERMAN:  You cannot corrupt yourself.
And, again, the voters will get to decide whether they
want someone who is like that or they want someone who
is more in tune with, say, what the party wants or with
what his donors want.  I mean, that's really the essence

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

of our -- of our electoral system.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I think -- I mean,
obviously you're correct that this system benefits
incumbents, but it benefits your client in a particular
way as well.  The parties are certainly interested in
candidates who will fund themselves because that
presents less strain on the party's resources.
            MR. HERMAN:  Mr. Chief Justice, they are
interested in those candidates only inasmuch as they get
elected.  The moment that the public turns on them, they
won't be interested.  And certainly the public was not
particularly interested in Mitt Romney, who spent a
significant amount of money on his own behalf, and many
other spectacular flameouts.
            (Laughter.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm not sure we need
characterizations of the political candidates --
            (Laughter.)
            MR. HERMAN:  I apologize.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- in this forum.
            MR. HERMAN:  Let me just add -- let me just
add one other thing.  The government's own experts, all
of their information is derived from an individual who
is quoted as saying that self- financed candidates
rarely win, and when they do, it's usually for some

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

other reason.  The fact of the matter is they don't
always make great candidates because they're not within
the mainstream.
            I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Mr. Herman.
            General Clement.
              ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT
                   ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLEE
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
            Appellant's claim here is an odd sort of
First Amendment complaint.  He does not suggest that
Section 319 has limited his own spending at all.  In
fact, he has twice spent a substantial amount of his own
money in excess of the statutory triggers.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It has penalized his own
spending.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well -- and we can talk
about that as well, but I think it's worth recognizing
that his own spending is unlimited both in theory and in
fact.  And, if anything, he has announced his intent
this next time around to spend even more of his own
money.  And the other thing that I think is relevant is
his experience is not atypical in this regard.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  That just means he is
willing to accept the penalty in the next election even
if this case doesn't come out in his favor.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, Justice Scalia --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It doesn't prove that it
isn't a penalty.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, I don't think in any
way it's a penalty.  And I think in order to understand
it as a penalty you have to accept the proposition that
you start out with a constitutional entitlement to speak
freely without the opportunity for the other side to
respond, and I don't think the Constitution recognizes
this.
            This isn't a context where they forced the
Appellant to pay for the other side's speech, as in
Tornillo, or carry the speech, as in PG&E.  And I don't
think it's fair to look at the record here and suggest
that what Congress was trying to do here was actually
limit or deter self-financing.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, isn't there something
very -- isn't there something very strange about having
different contribution limits for candidates in an
election?  Do you think it would be constitutional for
Congress to say that the -- the contribution limits for
incumbents is X, but for challengers it's 2X or one-half

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

X?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, I think 2X would be
constitutional.  And I think most people would be
surprised if Congress passed the statute that gave more
generous contribution limits to challengers, but I think
it would be a perfectly appropriate regime because it
would recognize that incumbents have certainly built-in
advantages such that the relatively low hard money
contribution caps have a greater influence, greater
impact on a --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You think that's really a
proper function of government, to look out over there
and say, we're going to even the playing field in this
election?  What if some -- one candidate is more
eloquent than the other one?  You make him talk with
pebbles in his mouth or what?
            (Laughter.)
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Justice Scalia, I think
there's an important distinction that was suggested in
one of Justice Alito's question, between the government
trying to level the playing field in the abstract and
the government looking out, not at the eloquence of
candidates, but at its own campaign finance regime after
this Court's decision and recognizing that, look, the
differential --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But the campaign finance
regimes we've approved up to now, the significant
limitations, have had an anti-corruption rationale.
There is no anti-corruption rationale here.  The only
purpose of this is to level the playing field.  And I am
deeply suspicious of allowing elections to be conducted
under a regime whereby Congress levels the playing
field.  That seems to be very dangerous.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, again, Justice
Scalia, though, you start with the anti-corruption
rationale that underlies the hard money contribution
caps.  And what Congress has recognized is that after
Buckley and after this Court said that a candidate's
ability to self-finance is unlimited, it's recognized
that in a subset of elections where somebody is going to
spend an awful lot of their own money to self-finance,
the ordinary hard money contribution caps are going to
have a potentially skewing effect.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  It's not just money.  It's
not just money.  It's the quality and kind of speech.
You're saying, the government is saying, the statute
says, that the underfunded candidate has less access to
coordinated expenditures with the party than -- than the
other party -- than the other candidate.  And the cases
have acknowledge, the statute acknowledges, that

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

coordinated expenditures have a particularly potent
force, and you are saying candidates are treated
differently in the access to this kind of speech.
            And I know of no precedent of this Court
that says one party is entitled to assistance from a
certain segment and another party is not, based on
the -- the content of the speech.  And that's exactly
what this is.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, Justice Kennedy,
what I would say is, if you analogize to a system where
Congress decided that because of the advantage that
incumbents have, there is a greater scope for
coordination of the party with the challengers, I would
certainly be here defending that statute.
            I would like to make clear, though, Justice
Kennedy, in fairness, that this focus on the coordinated
expenditures of the parties has really not been the
focus of Appellant's challenge in this case.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But it's in the statute
and it's part of the challenge.  I agree that it's been
given a relatively minor position, but it's of great
concern to me because it puts this Court, it puts this
statute, in the position of preferring one kind of
speech over another.  And we simply do not do that.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, Justice Kennedy, let

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

me say two things about the fact that this was not the
gravamen of the challenge here, because one reason I
think that's clear is if you look at the record here, at
the point that the record closed in this case no party
had taken advantage of that coordinated expenditures
provision.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Are you saying that
argument is not properly before us when we are judging
the validity of the statute that's been challenged?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  I'm saying that this
record would not allow you to invalidate the statute on
that ground.  The record at the time that it closed
should -- there was no time that a party had taken
advantage of that.  Now, I understand that it's outside
the record, but I understand after the record closed
there were some coordinated expenditures.
            But another thing I would certainly want to
know before I considered that challenge, Justice
Kennedy, is whether this particular Appellant had
coordinated expenditures from his own party up to the
limit, because we know as a general matter that there
is -- parties will fund different candidates differently
or may fund --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But the provisions --
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  -- some and not others.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  The provisions of the law
which prefers one candidate over the other with respect
to coordinated expenditures has an impact on campaign
strategy.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, again, Justice
Kennedy, in fairness, though, I mean, one would expect
if that were the nature of the claim, that at a minimum
we would know two facts that I don't know, aren't in the
record.  One is whether or not his candidate reached the
cap from his party's coordinated expenditures, because
if he didn't I don't see why that individual would have
standing.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Mr. Solicitor General,
you're defending this statute on its face, I take it.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, I am defending --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And it seems to me that
this is a facial invalidity of substantial proportions.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, Justice Kennedy, I
always thought it was harder to bring a facial
challenge, not easier to bring a facial challenge.  And
I realized that we relaxed the normal rules about
as-applied challenges in the First Amendment context,
but I think there has to be a limit to that, too.  And I
think in a case where we don't know the fundamental
facts that at least I'd want to know before even

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

evaluating that challenge, I think it would be bad for
us to invalidate the statute, it would be wrong for us
to invalidate the statute on those grounds.  And I think
I would still be here defending it.  --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I thought that that's what
a facial challenge essentially consists of.  You don't
look to see whether in fact the harmful First Amendment
effect has occurred; you look to whether it opens up the
possibility for that to occur.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  But I don't think mere
theoretical possibility is enough, even in the First
Amendment context.  And I still think you ask the
question:  Does this individual even have standing to
bring the First Amendment challenge?  And I would think
an element of standing to bring the First Amendment
challenge Justice Kennedy has in mind would be a
candidate who, first of all, his opposing candidate took
substantial amounts of excess contributions.  But at a
bare minimum, I would think that the plaintiff would
have to say that, look, I took up to the cap of the
coordinated contributions from my party and I would have
loved to have gotten more, the party was willing to give
me more, but I wasn't able --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You can't go in before the
election and say:  Look, I'm about to be terribly

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

disadvantaged; my opponent is about to have all of these
coordinated expenses and I'm not able to.  And you're
going to say:  Oh, we have to wait until the election is
over to see whether in fact that happens.  It seems to
me this is precisely the kind of a situation a facial
challenge is designed for.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  With respect, Justice
Scalia, there is two things.  There is whether you can
bring a facial challenge or not and there's when you can
you bring it.  And I think if you go in and allege that
all of those things are likely, then you probably have
standing at the outset.
            But those allegations weren't made here.
The focus of this case has always been on the
contribution levels and the contribution provisions of
this statute.  At the end of the day the analysis is
quite similar, so I'm not --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Isn't one of the virtues
of the independent self-financed candidate is he can
emphasize his independence?  So he very rarely is going
to complain about not being able to get too much money,
enough money from outside sources.  And isn't it a fact
that most of them do finance a very significant
percentage of their total campaign costs?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  I think all that's right,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Justice Stevens.  And as you suggest, it's an unlikely
challenge to be brought because often times the
self-financer is advertising his independence from party
and contributors here.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do you want us to write an
opinion which says that independently wealthy candidates
generally have different sorts of views than other
people?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  No, I don't think that's
true.  But I think that they do have different ways of
raising the funds necessary to mount their campaigns.
            And I think -- to get back to the focus of
this, I think all that the Court needs to recognize is
that the Buckley decision itself has created a potential
anomaly, because if you want to think about
self-financing, you can think about it as being the
ultimate form of soft money, because the Constitution
itself precludes Congress from limiting the amount of
self-funding.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  General, we haven't
talked yet about the disclosure, the special disclosure
requirements in that money is speech, and in a First
Amendment area it strikes me as very problematic that
the government requires you to disclose in a
differential way how you intend -- when you're spending

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

a particular amount of money and on such precise
day-by-day requirements.
            I mean, is there any other area -- if you're
writing a book, you don't have to disclose to the
government when you're going to publish it and how far
along you're getting in the draft.  And yet, it just
seems this is the same sort of thing in the election
context.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, Mr. Chief Justice,
there are other contexts within the election area where
there are comparable disclosure requirements.  And I
think I would point you to the McConnell case and the
fact that this Court approved a 24-hour disclosure
requirement for electioneering communications.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But those are
applicable across the board.  These are special
disclosure requirements for people who are going to
engage in additional speech.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, I mean, I'm not --
I'm not sure that's right in a sense that these are
disclosure requirements that apply across the board.
The timing is triggered particularly by a candidate's
contribution to their own campaign.  So that's the way
in which they're different.  But I think it's worth
focusing on that, because I actually think the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

constitutional issues that are implicated by a
disclosure of a candidate's contribution to his or her
own campaign are actually less significant than
generally is true of campaign finance disclosure,
because what this Court talked about in Buckley as the
primary concern in the disclosure context was the
associational rights that are reflected when somebody
contributes to a candidate or an organization makes an
electioneering communication on behalf of a candidate.
            I think those associational interests are
obviously not implicated when all you're forcing someone
to disclose is the amount that they spent on their own
campaign.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So wouldn't you
think they would require more detailed and more
expeditious disclosure of the associational link than of
the self-funding?  And yet it's the exact opposite?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  No.  I would think the
Constitution would be more concerned about the
disclosing the associational link because there is more
than one constitutional interest at issue.  And I think
if you look at this as a whole there really isn't a
differential regime.  Every electioneering communication
from the first $10,000 has to be disclosed.  If
anything, the complaint should be the electioneering

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

communication should come in here complaining about the
fact that these self-financing candidates get a free
pass for the first $350,000 of their financing, before
the disclosure requirements kick in.
            So I mean, I really think this is a
relatively modest disclosure provision and it arises in
a context where there aren't associational interests.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The problem is it's every
$10,000.  As you pointed out, it doesn't require more
disclosure.  All of this information would be disclosed
under the system without this 24-hour, and that I think
is the complaint, the burden of having every time you
spend $10,000 to file something.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  But Justice Ginsburg, I
think that's the same in the electioneering
communications, which is it's triggered for $10,000 but
I think it continues to be triggered.  Now, it isn't the
nature of the challenge, so I may be wrong about that,
but I think that's the way that that works.
            In any event, I think it's a fair point here
that the fact that you trigger additional disclosures
with each $10,000 I think is useful in informing the
electorate; but I also think it's fair to say is
necessary in order for the substantive provisions of the
statute to operate, because what they want to do is they

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

want to enable as a self-financed candidate spends
additional money as the election date approaches, they
want to put the opponent, if they have otherwise reached
the cap of what they can raise in additional funds in a
position to continue to raise additional funds.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What if the -- what
if the restriction were more tailored, if Congress
decided the one area where the wealthy really have an
advantage is buying television time, so that's what
we're going to restrict.  If the wealthy individual buys
a certain amount of television time, we're going to
allow contributions to the less wealthy candidate to buy
television time.  They think the money is not as big a
deal in the other areas.  Would that be all right?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  I think it would be
constitutional, Mr. Chief Justice.  I think it's
reacting to the same basic phenomenon, which is one
aspect of the campaign finance regime gives self-
financers an ability to spend a tremendous amount of
money and creates a potential disparity.  What creates
the disparity is the fact that you have relatively low
hard money contribution caps, and Congress recognized --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What if one party has more
time on his hands?  He's -- he's unemployed, so he --
you know, he can go around, whereas the other party has

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

to -- has to hire people to speak for him.  He has -- he
has a job most of the time.  Are you going to even that
disparity, too?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  No, Justice Scalia, and
again I think there's an important distinction between
trying to level the playing field in every respect --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I can understand leveling,
leveling contribution limits when you're worried about
corruption, I can understand that.  But doing it just to
-- to make sure that there is an even playing field, I
-- there's just no end to that.  And it just isn't money
that makes it an even playing feed.  A lot of other
factors -- incumbency, the war chest that incumbents
have which -- money from the last election, that isn't
counted for -- for the millionaires' provision.
            There are so many factors that -- that go to
making the even playing field that I -- I'm just very
reluctant to acknowledge a congressional power to -- to
sit in judgment of our elections that way.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, Justice Scalia, I
mean, in an odd way I think this principle is actually
implicit in the plurality opinion against -- in Randall
v. Sorrell.  I know you didn't join that opinion, but in
that opinion this Court said, the plurality said, that
contribution limits can in some ways be too low because

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

if they're too low they preclude the ability for
somebody to raise enough money and that exaggerates the
advantages that incumbents have.  And I think Congress
really made an analogous judgment here.  I'm not
suggesting it was constitutionally compelled, but they
made an analogous judgment, which is there is more than
one source of advantage; one source of advantage is the
self-financing candidate's ability to spend unlimited
amounts of their own money.  They respected the fact
that that's a constitutional entitlement, but they said
it's not that in the abstract that's the problem; it's
the combination of unlimited self-financing and
relatively low hard money contribution caps --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But --
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  -- and they relaxed the
one thing that they could control, which was the cap.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So what if Congress
decided that a debate on a particular issue was
distorted by the wealth of owners of newspapers?  And so
it passed a law saying that people who are responding to
that are relieved of the tax burden they would otherwise
have to pay, on whatever their -- you know, sales tax on
pamphlets that they want to sell.  Would that be all
right?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  I --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  To level the playing
field on the debate on that particular issue?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  I think it might be and
it's not that radically different than what this Court
approved in Ragan against Taxation Without
Representation.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No -- so you can tax
-- you can tax a newspaper, but you cannot -- you don't
have to tax people who are responding to the newspaper?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The taxing power is
an -- is a limit on the exercise of First Amendment
rights?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Maybe there are
differences in that particular context.  Maybe the
Freedom of Press clause informs the analysis.  But this
Court has upheld the regime that withheld tax benefits
to an organization if it engaged in lobbying; and at the
same time this Court said that it was okay to give those
tax benefits --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But that's any --
any organization that engaged in lobbying.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Yes, but the next couple
of lines of the opinion said:  And it's okay if we give
those tax benefits back to a veterans organization, but

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

only veterans organizations.  So I just think what that
case shows up is that the Court has recognized that the
government has a fair amount of flexibility.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So is there no
limitation on the rationale of leveling the playing
field throughout the First Amendment?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  No, there is -- there is a
limiting principle, and I think that, importantly, there
is a limiting principle that's very applicable to this
very context, which is I think if Congress went to the
point where they weren't doing what I think they're
doing here, which is not trying to limit the amount of
self-financing, but using it as a mechanism here to
identify particularly costly races where they should
raise the contribution limits, if they went further and
basically said we're going to give you public financing
if your opponent self-finances, and we're going to give
you two dollars for every dollar that your opponent
self-finances, I think at that point as a practical
matter the regime would operate as a ban on -- as a cap,
just like this Court held in Buckley.
            But I think that's the way to approach this
issue, which is to basically say if what Congress is
doing is really trying to effectively cap
self-expenditures, then Congress cannot do that; but if

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

what Congress is doing is giving candidates choice and
is trying to react to the regulatory environment created
by self-financing --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, it's trying --
it's certainly trying to chill self-financing by
burdening it when it reaches a certain level.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  I mean, I really don't
think that's an accurate description of what happened
here, because if you look at the legislative record here
-- I know not everybody likes to do that -- but if you
look at the legislative record here, you will see that
both parties in this, the opponents and the proponents
of this amendment, realize that they couldn't limit
self-financing and that they were unlikely to limit
self-financing because it's such an attractive option
for parties and for candidates.  And both parties took
it as a given that the effect of Section 319 and its
Senate counterpart would be to put more money, not less
money, into electoral speech.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  How is it that there is a
serious corruption problem in most instances if a
contributor gives more than $2,300 to a candidate, but
there is no serious -- presumably Congress doesn't think
there is a serious corruption problem when this statute
kicks in and somebody gives $6,900 to a candidate?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, Justice Alito, what
I would say is that what the relaxation of the
contribution limits reflects is an adjustment of other
interests; and I don't think in principle what Congress
has done here is different from what a number of States
do, which is they say for the race for governor the
contribution cap limit is going to be 2,000; for State
auditor it will be a little less; and for local
representative it will be substantially less.
            Now, I suppose somebody could have come in
and said, look, you know, the race for governor you can
give $2,000; you can only give a 1,000 for this
representative race, so surely that's irrational because
the State has recognized that a contribution of $2,000
is noncorrupting.  It's not the way it's ever proceeded
and I think this Court's --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Isn't there a difference,
because it may take -- it may take more money to
campaign for a particular office, and so the -- it might
take a greater amount to have a corrupting influence on
-- on that particular race than on a race where the
total amount spent is -- is lower.  But here you're not
talking about different offices.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  No.  But I think you're
talking about Congress using a mechanism that is equally

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

effective in identifying races that are likely to be
more expensive.  When one party is spending more than
$350,000 of their own money, that's every bit as likely
to be a more expensive race than the race for governor
or State treasurer or a local representative.  And
that's why I think this is so responsive to the problem
that Congress recognized with the combination --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  But it applies different
limits to different in the same -- to candidates in the
same race.  So why would Mr. Davis be subject to
potential corruption if he got $2,300 -- $2,301 from a
-- from a contributor, but his opponent in exactly the
same race would not be exposed to corruption if he got
$6,900?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Well, can I say two things
in response to that?  One is it would not be
unprecedented for this Court to approve a regime where
the choices of the candidates led to different
contribution levels in the exact same race for the exact
same office, because that's what happens in Buckley in
the public financing scheme that this Court approved.
If somebody accepts public financing for the general
election for presidency, they are effectively agree to a
zero contribution limit; whereas, their opponent, minor
party opponent for example, would be subject to higher

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

contribution level.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's the price of
accepting the government subsidy.  They're -- nobody is
accepting a government subsidy here.  The man is
spending his own money --
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  But one --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- for a speech.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  But one of the prices of
accepting the government subsidy in Buckley was to agree
to limit your own financing of your own campaign to
$50,000.
            Now, their whole theory of this case is that
somehow a benefit to their opponent is the same thing as
a detriment to themselves.  And it seems to me that -- I
mean, the base lines here are sufficiently manipulable;
the analogy is exactly the same.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Can you back to Justice
Kennedy's question, where as I took it he identifies a
problem that he sees in this portion of this act which,
should the limit be exceeded by our opponent, then we
can go to the party and the party can give us more?
Now, assume for the sake of argument that he has
correctly identified a problem with that.  Now, my
understanding is that once the limit is exceeded and you
have this extra amount, three things happen:  One, an

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

individual could contribute two or three times the
amount to the party directly.  A second possibility is
an individual who has exceeded the global amount now
gets a bump up and can contribute.  And the third thing
is the party thing.
            So focus on that statute where this is
written.  In your opinion, if, for the sake of argument,
there were a problem with the party, would that
particular form of words in the statute be severable
from the rest of it?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  It certainly would,
Justice Breyer, and one thing to keep in mind in
interpreting the statute is that it has Section 401 of
the original BCRA -- I think we have it at page 28 of
our brief -- is what I would describe, I think, as a
"super-severability" clause, because it says not only
are unconstitutional provisions severable, but even
unconstitutional applications of the same provision are
severable.
            And I think there would be no problem
effectively leaving the statute with the disclosure
requirements in place and two of the three means of
taking advantage of additional opportunities that the
statute affords challengers.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            GENERAL CLEMENT:  So I certainly think it
would be severable.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  On the theory that it
doesn't make much sense anyway?  Is that why --
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  No.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- we can chop it up this
way?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  No.  To the contrary, on
the theory that this statute operates on this record
without that provision being implicated at all.  I mean,
in the first applications of this, the entirety of the
2004 election cycle, no party took advantage of the
coordinated --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But I thought that --
            GENERAL CLEMENT: -- contributions.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- that Justice Breyer's
question, General Clement, was he asked you to assume
that that was unconstitutional, and you were answering
if it was unconstitutional.  But there is one person
whose speech is being discouraged in the picture, and
that's the contributor to the self-financed candidate.
You have to recognize that that one can't speak as much
vis-a-vis the contributors to the other candidate.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  I mean, I would concede
that there will be these differential limits, but it's

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

based on the choice of the candidate to engage or not in
self-financing, and -- I mean, the restriction there is
much more substantial than the public financing scheme
approved by this Court in Buckley, because in the
general election if the candidate decides that it's
going to -- that a candidate is going to take the public
financing scheme then in the general presidential
election I can't give even a dollar to that candidate.
            And it's also I think worth recognizing that
in Buckley this Court recognized that, for
constitutional and associational rights purposes, it's
really the ability to associate with the candidate by
giving any contribution, rather than the amount of the
contribution, that satisfies that limit.
            In all events, this is not a challenge
that's being brought by contributors.  And I think it's
worth recognizing that Appellant, even though some of
its challenge, and I would say the gravamen of the
challenge, sounds -- his challenge sounds in equal
protection terms, he doesn't really want a leveling-up
where the opportunity would be for contributors to both
candidates to make triple the $2300 limits.  He really
wants to keep the yoke of relatively low contribution
limits on his opponents.  And that's why I think this is
such an odd First Amendment challenge.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What if the law
expressed a displeasure at the introduction of
self-financing and said that, as you have these very
rapid disclosures, that the less wealthy candidate can
accept contributions whatever, twice the amount of
whatever the self-financed candidate is spending on his
campaign?  Is that all right?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  I mean, I'm not sure I
have the hypo.  If he can spend twice as much?
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, he -- you
know, the millionaire, as we are talking about, spends
-- discloses that he has spent $500,000.  Then the
contribution limits are off the table for the less
wealthy candidate to the tune of a million dollars, in
other words twice as much as the self-financed
candidate.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  If I'm understanding the
hypo which we were just talking about contribution
limits, because there are no expenditure limits, if I'm
understanding the hypo right, I think that would still
be okay.  I mean, I think if Congress had decided here
that if a self-financer spends beyond a certain amount,
then what is important is that then the contribution
limits would be lifted entirely.  I suppose Congress
could do that, as long as they maintained what they

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

called the "parity principle" or the "proportionality
principle," which is in no circumstance will the
opponent be able to raise more than the amount of the
additional spending.  And if your hypo is suggesting
that that would be relaxed so that they could raise
twice as much, I think that would raise more difficult
constitutional questions.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, why not?
Because as -- your point in this case, rather than the
hypothetical, is that the self-financed candidate is not
burdened in any way, but simply that his opponent has
benefited.  And it seems to me that would be true in the
case of my hypothetical as well.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  Again, if I'm
understanding the hypo right, I think you would say
there that the candidate is effectively burdened because
if you get to the point where you're past what I would
call "parity" and you actually -- by spending an
additional dollar, you're allowing your opponent to
spend $2 additional additionally, I think at that point
a rational candidate is not going to engage in
self-finance.  And so in practice, the provision would
operate as an absolute cap, rather than the way it
operates here, which is not as a cap.  And I think if
you look at the numbers in the record, joint appendix

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

page 89 --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I would have thought
all the arguments that you gave before, like the
self-financed candidate wants to be able to say he
doesn't rely on contributions and so on, those would
still be equally applicable.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  They would, but I do think
the statute in practice would operate quite differently.
And that's why I think it's very helpful that we have a
record here in this case that we can cite to.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So it's not a --
it's not a qualitative argument you're making but a
quantitative.  At some point, the benefit to the
opponent gets to be too much of a chill on the
self-financed candidate, but under this system you think
it's below the line.
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  I would put it differently
and say we're not arguing for a principle without
limits, but what I would say is that we really benefit
here from the fact that this Court found no standing for
the challenge to the Millionaires' Provision in
McConnell, and we have a record of actual experience.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Suppose we found -- we were
of the view that all of the provisions, that the
benefits given to the other side here are bad.  I

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

suppose we could even -- re-even the playing field by
either denying those benefits to the candidate opposing
the Appellant, the Petitioner here, or we could do the
opposite and eliminate similar restrictions upon -- upon
the Petitioner.  Do you have any idea which way we ought
to go?
            GENERAL CLEMENT:  May I answer the question?
I mean, you're right that to the extent that this says
this really sounds as an equal protection case more than
a First Amendment case, at the remedial stage you'd ask
the question:  Should we level up and have both
candidates have a larger cap or should we level down and
hold them both to the $2300 level?
            I would say two things, if I may.  One is
it's no accident that Appellant isn't asking you to
level up because what -- they're not interested in doing
additional financing; they're really taking --
interested in taking advantage of keeping the opponent
down to the $2300 level.
            The only other thing that I would say about
this choice between leveling up and leveling down is I
would say that the statute that would have relaxed the
caps for both candidates would pose the same First
Amendment issue as this statute.  And so it really is,
at bottom, an equal protection claim that you have

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

before you.
            Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, General
Clement.
            Mr. Herman, you may take five minutes.
            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. HERMAN
                ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT
            MR. HERMAN:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
            First of all, let me answer this -- the
discussion about the quote "parity principle."  In this
case, Mr. Davis was outspent by $3 million, yet the
parity principle would have allowed his opponent to
raise another $1.4 million.  The district court has
never answered-- never answered that flaw in the
statute.  I haven't seen any explanation of how that
creates parity when the higher fund --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Where did the money come
from?  Was it a war chest left over from prior
campaigns?
            MR. HERMAN:  For his opponent?
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes, because he didn't --
his opponent did not take advantage of the relaxed
contribution limits.
            MR. HERMAN:  He went into the election,
Justice Ginsburg, with about a $1.15 million war chest.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

And then he --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Because he was just a
good fundraiser?  That --
            MR. HERMAN:  He was a chairman of the NRCC.
He was an excellent fundraiser.
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Can you address Justice
Scalia's question about leveling up and leveling down?
            MR. HERMAN:  I would agree with -- with my
friend that we have no interest in leveling up.  That's
-- that's -- as an independent candidate, Mr. Davis is
forgoing, for the vast, vast majority of his funding,
contributions from private sources, and he has no
interest in fostering higher contribution limits for
anyone.
            Let me also discuss the intent -- excuse me
-- the disclosure very briefly.  There has been some
discussion about how this is -- it's very similar to
independent-expenditure disclosure.  It's really not.
            What the -- what the statute requires is
that a self-financed candidate declare, at the very
start of his campaign, whether he intends to spend more
than $350,000.  That, as the government's brief
acknowledges, has no analogue in any other disclosure
provision, and it serves -- it serves no purpose.  It

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

doesn't -- it doesn't inform the electorate of anything
other than that this gentleman is going to be
self-financing.
            It certainly doesn't address corruption.
It's simply -- simply harassment of a self-financer
requiring them to go on the record --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, it advises the other
side that they should get ready to raise more money.
            MR. HERMAN:  That's exactly right.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well -- I mean if you say
all of the rest of the statute is okay, that's certainly
reasonable.  If you're going to let the guy go above the
limits that would otherwise apply, it's useful to let
him know in advance so he can start, you know, beating
the bushes, right?
            MR. HERMAN:  Certainly.  And then, finally,
there is a reference to this -- this is the ultimate
soft money.  We would submit this is the ultimate hard
money.  This is money that was raised by Mr. Davis.  He
earned it.  He is entitled to spend it as he wishes, and
he is certainly entitled to spend it furthering his
candidacy.
            Now, if there are no further questions --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you
Mr. Herman.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

A

ability 28:14
38:19 40:1,8
49:12

able 11:24 32:23

33:2,21 51:3
52:4

above-entitled

1:12 57:3

absolute 51:23
absolutely 4:18

5:9 7:12,15
13:8 21:19

abstract 27:21

40:11

accept 15:3 26:2

26:9 50:5

accepting 46:3,4

46:9

accepts 45:22
access 17:21
28:22 29:3

accident 53:15
account 9:10
accurate 43:8
acknowledge
28:25 39:18
acknowledged

5:22

acknowledges
28:25 55:24

act 46:19
action 14:25
activity 3:14
actual 52:22
actuality 13:12
ad 4:8,11
add 24:21,22
additional 10:1

35:18 37:21
38:2,4,5 47:23
51:4,19,20
53:17

additionally

51:20

address 23:10

55:7 56:4

adjustment 44:3
advance 56:14
advantage 4:5

9:12 11:25
15:2 29:11
30:5,14 38:9
40:7,7 47:23
48:12 53:18
54:22

advantages 9:11
9:12 27:8 40:3
advertising 34:3
advises 56:7
affords 47:24
agree 29:20
45:23 46:9
55:9

ahead 7:9
Alito 8:22 9:1,2

14:21 15:8
26:20 43:20
44:1,17 45:8
55:7

Alito's 27:20
allegations

33:13

allege 33:10
allegedly 14:18
allocate 23:3
allow 12:9 17:7

30:11 38:12
allowed 8:19

54:12

allowing 20:7
28:6 51:19
allows 11:5
alternatives

11:18,19

ameliorative

11:8

amendment

3:15 7:5 10:11
12:5 20:15,19
20:21 21:11
25:13 31:22
32:7,12,14,15
34:23 41:12

42:6 43:13
49:25 53:10,24

amicus 12:2,3
amount 11:7
12:12 13:23
14:14 15:19,20
16:22 21:24
24:13 25:15
34:18 35:1
36:12 38:11,19
42:3,12 44:20
44:22 46:25
47:2,3 49:13
50:5,22 51:3
amounts 32:18

analogize 29:10
analogous 40:4

40:9

40:6

analogue 55:24
analogy 46:16
analysis 12:22
12:23 33:16
41:16

ANDREW 1:16
2:3,8 3:7 54:6
announced 9:4

25:22

anomaly 34:15
answer 53:7

answered 54:14

54:9

54:14

answering 48:18
anti-corruption

28:3,4,10

anti-corruptive

11:5 13:10
anybody 6:25
7:20 19:16
anyway 7:10

48:4

apologize 24:19
appearance

APPEARAN...

13:12

1:15

Appellant 1:4
1:17 2:4,9 3:8
26:15 30:19
49:17 53:3,15
54:7

Appellant's

25:12 29:18
Appellee 1:20

2:6 25:9

appendix 51:25
applicable 20:14

35:16 42:9
52:6

applications
47:18 48:11
applies 15:13

45:8

apply 22:1,2
35:21 56:13

approach 42:22
approaches 38:2
appropriate

27:6

approve 45:17
approved 14:13

28:2 35:13
41:5 45:21
49:4

April 1:10
area 16:16 20:12
34:23 35:3,10
38:8

areas 38:14
arguing 52:18
argument 1:13

2:2,7 3:3,7
7:17,18 10:16
17:24 18:3,18
18:24 19:1
25:8 30:8
46:22 47:7
52:12 54:6

arguments 52:3
arises 37:6
asked 48:17
asking 18:15

53:15

aspect 14:3

38:18

assistance 29:5
associate 49:12
associational

36:7,10,16,20
37:7 49:11
assume 46:22

48:17

as-applied 31:22
attack 19:8
attempt 15:22
attractive 43:15
atypical 25:25
auditor 44:8
automatically

4:16,16

average 16:13
awful 28:16
a.m 1:14 3:2

57:2

B

back 34:12

41:25 46:17
bad 32:1 52:25
balance 25:4
ban 42:20
bare 32:19
base 46:15
based 29:6 49:1
basic 38:17
basically 9:22

42:16,23

basis 7:5 8:13,14

15:5

basketball 13:18
BCRA 3:16

47:14
beat 5:2
beating 56:14
beginning 4:3
behalf 1:16,19
2:4,6,9 3:8,13
24:13 25:9
36:9 54:7
believe 11:3

58

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

benefit 46:13

52:13,19

benefited 51:12
benefits 11:25
24:3,4 41:17
41:20,25 52:25
53:2

best 17:23 18:3

18:15,16,18
19:25 20:1
better 21:12
beyond 50:22
bidder 10:25
big 38:13
bit 9:17 45:3
board 35:16,21
book 35:4
boost 11:23 12:1

13:25

bottom 53:25
bought 10:25
11:10 16:10
Breyer 46:17

47:12

Breyer's 48:16
brief 11:15 12:2

12:3 47:15
55:23

briefing 9:22
briefly 55:17
bring 31:19,20
32:14,15 33:9
33:10

brings 9:13
brought 23:10

34:2 49:16
Buckley 5:19
11:7 12:8,23
12:23 13:22
14:1,3,12,17
15:23 28:13
34:14 36:5
42:21 45:20
46:9 49:4,10

built-in 27:7
bump 47:4
burden 4:16,21

20:23 37:12
40:21

burdened 4:2

51:11,16

burdening 43:6
bushes 56:15
buy 38:12
buying 38:9
buys 38:10
C
C 2:1 3:1
call 13:19 51:18
called 11:7 51:1
campaign 3:14
4:3 6:18 7:25
7:25 23:13
27:23 28:1
31:3 33:24
35:23 36:3,4
36:13 38:18
44:19 46:10
50:7 55:22
campaigns

34:11 54:19

candidacy 56:22
candidate 3:13

3:24 5:23
16:11 17:7
18:12,22 19:2
19:3,22,24
20:14 21:1,9
21:13 22:3,16
22:17,22 23:3
23:8 27:14
28:22,24 31:2
31:9 32:17,17
33:19 36:8,9
38:1,12 43:22
43:25 48:21,23
49:1,5,6,8,12
50:4,6,14,16
51:10,16,21
52:4,15 53:2
55:11,21

candidates 3:22
6:7 8:16 10:22

11:9,24 12:1
12:25 14:9
15:2 18:4
21:21 23:11
24:6,9,17,24
25:2 26:22
27:23 29:2
30:22 34:6
37:2 43:1,16
45:9,18 49:22
53:12,23

candidate's 4:24

23:1 28:13
35:22 36:2
40:8

cap 31:10 32:20

38:4 40:16
42:20,24 44:7
51:23,24 53:12

capacity 8:3,9
caps 27:9 28:12

28:17 38:22
40:13 53:23

carry 26:16
carve 15:13
case 3:4,11 5:13

9:23 11:22
16:8 17:9,23
18:16 19:25
26:3 29:18
30:4 31:24
33:14 35:12
42:2 46:12
51:9,13 52:10
53:9,10 54:11
57:1,2

cases 16:7 28:24
categorically

7:23

cent 19:16
center 12:24
certain 29:6
38:11 43:6
50:22

certainly 10:16

16:7,16,21
17:5 22:17

23:2,5,14 24:5
24:11 27:7
29:14 30:17
43:5 47:11
48:1 56:4,11
56:16,21

chairman 55:4
challenge 29:18
29:20 30:2,18
31:20,20 32:1
32:6,14,16
33:6,9 34:2
37:18 49:15,18
49:19,19,25
52:21

challenged 30:9
challenger 9:7
17:9,20,20,22
challengers 9:6

26:25 27:5
29:13 47:24

challenges 31:22
characterizati...

24:17

chest 39:13
54:18,25

Chief 3:3,9,23
4:7,13,14,19
4:20,23 5:13
5:17 16:25
17:3 20:11,16
20:17 21:8
24:2,8,16,20
25:5,10 34:20
35:9,15 36:14
38:6,16 40:17
41:1,7,11,21
42:4 43:4 50:1
50:10 51:8
52:2,11 54:3,8
56:24

chill 7:6,16,18

43:5 52:14
chilling 7:11
choice 43:1 49:1

53:21

choices 45:18

choose 12:9

19:16

chop 48:6
cigarette 4:9
cigarettes 5:5
circumstance

51:2

cite 52:10
cited 10:9
citizens 4:22
claim 25:12 31:7

53:25

clarify 19:10
clause 41:16

47:16

clear 29:15 30:3
clearly 6:22
Clement 1:18
2:5 25:7,8,10
25:19 26:4,7
27:2,18 28:9
29:9,25 30:10
30:25 31:5,15
31:18 32:10
33:7,25 34:9
35:9,19 36:18
37:14 38:15
39:4,20 40:15
40:25 41:3,10
41:14,23 42:7
43:7 44:1,24
45:15 46:6,8
47:11 48:1,5,8
48:15,17,24
50:8,17 51:14
52:7,17 53:7
54:4

client 6:23 7:2
7:19,24 8:4,8
8:10 21:14
24:4

clients 6:15
client's 6:16

8:19

closed 30:4,12

30:15

closer 19:22

59

Alderson Reporting Company

competitive

40:5

Colorado 20:4

22:20

combination
40:12 45:7

come 26:3 37:1
44:10 54:17
comes 21:11
Commission 1:7

3:5

communication
20:10 36:9,23
37:1

communicatio...

11:6 20:6
35:14 37:16
comparable

comparison

35:11

14:11

compelled 40:5
compelling

14:22

16:20

13:15

competitiveness

complain 33:21
complaining

37:1

complaint 25:13

36:25 37:12
concede 6:2,5

48:24

concern 11:17

29:22 36:6

concerned 11:23

36:19

concerns 18:2
concluded 9:23
conducted 28:6
Congress 10:24
11:16,22 13:11
13:17 14:6,17
14:25 15:5,9
15:12,24 16:21
26:18,24 27:4
28:7,12 29:11

34:18 38:7,22
40:3,17 42:10
42:23,25 43:1
43:23 44:4,25
45:7 50:21,24
congressional

16:17,23 39:18

considered

30:18

consists 32:6
constitutes 3:14
Constitution
20:23 26:12
34:17 36:19
constitutional
3:11,20 13:2
15:4 17:1
26:10,23 27:3
36:1,21 38:16
40:10 49:11
51:7

constitutionally

content 29:7
context 18:20
19:1 26:14
31:22 32:12
35:8 36:6 37:7
41:15 42:10
contexts 35:10
continue 21:25

continues 37:17
contrary 4:11

38:5

48:8

47:4

contributes 36:8
contribution

15:4,7 20:8,22
22:2 26:22,24
27:5,9 28:11
28:17 33:15,15
35:23 36:2
38:22 39:8,25
40:13 42:15
44:3,7,14

contribute 47:1

44:20

Official - Subject to Final Review

45:19,24 46:1
49:13,14,23
50:13,18,23
54:23 55:14
contributions

3:22 10:6 16:5
17:12 21:25
32:18,21 38:12
48:15 50:5
52:5 55:13
contributor
43:22 45:12
48:21

contributors
34:4 48:23
49:16,21

control 40:16
conversely 3:21
convince 22:18
coordinated

11:6 20:6,10
28:23 29:1,16
30:5,16,20
31:3,10 32:21
33:2 48:13
coordination

29:13

core 3:15
correct 4:1,18

6:20 11:15
14:10 21:6
22:12 24:3

correctly 46:23
corrupt 23:21
corrupting

corruption
13:13 39:9
43:21,24 45:11
45:13 56:4
corruptive

14:19

cost 16:24
costly 42:14
costs 16:20

33:24

Counsel 20:11

counted 39:15
counterpart

43:18

couple 41:23
course 4:13

10:12 19:19
22:15

court 1:1,13

3:10,18 8:18
12:8 14:3,4,7
14:13,14 15:23
20:4,5,21
25:11 28:13
29:4,22 34:13
35:13 36:5
39:24 41:4,17
41:19 42:2,21
45:17,21 49:4
49:10 52:20
54:13

Court's 11:11
12:22 27:24
44:16

created 34:14

43:2

creates 38:20,20

54:16

cycle 48:12

D

D 1:16,18 2:3,5
2:8 3:1,7 25:8
54:6

dangerous 28:8
date 38:2
Davis 1:3 3:4

8:24 9:5 11:10
17:9 23:14
45:10 54:11
55:11 56:19

day 33:16
day-by-day 35:2
deal 13:12 16:14

38:14

dealing 23:8
debate 40:18

41:2

decide 23:22
decided 11:12

29:11 38:8
40:18 50:21
decides 49:5
decision 22:25
27:24 34:14
declare 55:21
deeply 28:6
defending 29:14
31:14,15 32:4
deficiencies 9:9
Democratic 5:7
denying 53:2
Department

1:19

derived 24:23
DeRossett 12:2
describe 47:15
description 43:8
designed 6:9
8:18 33:6

detailed 36:15
deter 3:16 6:6

6:21,22 7:2,19
7:20,24 26:19
determination
16:11 19:19

determinations

determined

determining

23:15

22:24

15:24

7:18

deterring 6:25

deters 10:22
detriment 46:14
difference 17:16

differences

44:17

41:15

different 8:23
13:21 26:22
30:22 34:7,10
35:24 41:4
44:5,23 45:8,9

60

Alderson Reporting Company

45:18

differential 18:3

22:21 27:25
34:25 36:23
48:25

differently 29:3
30:22 52:8,17
difficult 15:16

directly 47:2
disadvantaged

51:6

33:1

disclose 34:24

35:4 36:12

disclosed 16:4,6

36:24 37:10
discloses 50:12
disclosing 36:20
disclosure 34:21
34:21 35:11,13
35:17,21 36:2
36:4,6,16 37:4
37:6,10 47:21
55:17,19,24

disclosures
37:21 50:4
discouraged

48:20

discuss 55:16
discussion 54:10

55:18

disparity 38:20

38:21 39:3

displeasure 50:2
disproportion...

16:22

distinction 5:10
13:9 18:7,10
18:14 20:22
27:19 39:5

distorted 40:19
district 8:17
16:9 54:13

districts 16:17
doing 39:9 42:11
42:12,24 43:1
53:16

dollar 42:18
49:8 51:19
dollars 6:17
42:18 50:14
donors 21:24

23:12,25
draft 35:6
driving 11:17
D.C 1:9,16,19

E
E 2:1 3:1,1
earlier 20:12
early 9:23
earned 56:20
eases 20:17
easier 4:21,24

5:1 31:20
easiest 12:7
effect 8:24 10:2

17:19 28:18
32:8 43:17
effective 7:7

45:1

effectively 42:24

45:23 47:21
51:16

either 17:19

elected 10:13

53:2

24:10

election 1:6 3:5
5:8 7:2 8:24,25
9:8,13,20,25
22:14,16 26:2
26:23 27:14
32:25 33:3
35:7,10 38:2
39:14 45:23
48:12 49:5,8
54:24

electioneering
35:14 36:9,23
36:25 37:15
elections 9:4

28:6,15 39:19
electoral 18:20

24:1 43:19

electorate 37:23

56:1

element 32:15
eliminate 53:4
eloquence 27:22
eloquent 27:15
emphasize

33:20

empirical 6:24
enable 38:1
enacted 14:6
enacting 14:17
encourages

encumbered

10:21

12:4

engage 5:18
35:18 49:1
51:21

engaged 41:18

41:22

10:6

enhancing 4:6
entirely 50:24
entirety 21:15

48:11

entitled 29:5

56:20,21
entitlement

26:10 40:10
environment

43:2

53:25

14:15

equal 49:19 53:9

equality 12:25

equalize 8:16
equally 17:2
44:25 52:6

ESQ 1:16,18 2:3

essence 4:25

essentially 23:7

2:5,8

23:25

32:6

Official - Subject to Final Review

enhanced 8:3,9

32:18

estopped 7:10
evading 20:8
evaluate 7:4
evaluating 32:1
event 37:20
events 49:15
everybody

43:10

evidence 6:25
exact 36:17
45:19,19

exactly 29:7
45:12 46:16
56:9

exaggerates

40:2

example 4:8

45:25

exceeded 46:20

46:24 47:3
excellent 55:5
excess 25:16

excessive 15:25
excuse 55:16
exercise 4:15,16

41:12

expands 11:4
expect 7:16 31:6
expeditious

36:16

expenditure
14:7 15:1
20:24 50:19
expenditures

14:2 16:5
28:23 29:1,17
30:5,16,20
31:3,10

expenses 33:2
expensive 45:2,4
experience 6:12

6:13 25:25
52:22

experts 24:22
explained 19:12
explains 8:18

explanation
8:17 54:15

explicitly 17:19
exposed 45:13
expressed 50:2
expression 3:15

3:17

extent 53:8
extra 46:25

F
face 31:14
facial 31:17,19

31:20 32:6
33:5,9

facing 9:5
fact 7:1 9:14,17

11:4 21:21
23:11,14 25:1
25:15,22 30:1
32:7 33:4,22
35:13 37:2,21
38:21 40:9
52:20

factors 39:13,16
facts 20:5 31:8

31:25

failing 3:16
fails 3:19 9:10
fair 26:17 37:20

37:23 42:3

fairness 29:16

31:6

fallacy 16:2
far 35:5
favor 10:21 26:3
FEC 10:1
Federal 1:6 3:4

3:22

feed 39:12
feel 22:25
felt 19:20
field 8:16 11:13
12:15,24 13:2
13:6,16,17
14:16,22,24
15:9,12,13,15

61

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

15:18 27:13,21
28:5,8 39:6,10
39:17 41:2
42:6 53:1
figure 6:24
file 37:13
filing 6:16
finally 56:16
finance 27:23
28:1 33:23
36:4 38:18

financed 24:24
financers 38:19
financial 9:11
financing 37:3

42:16 45:21,22
46:10 49:3,7
53:17

find 11:18
finds 3:18
first 3:4,15 7:5
9:21 20:15,19
20:21 21:11
25:13 31:22
32:7,11,14,15
32:17 34:22
36:24 37:3
41:12 42:6
48:11 49:25
53:10,23 54:9

five 54:5
flameouts 24:14
flaw 54:14
flexibility 42:3
focus 29:16,18
33:14 34:12
47:6

focusing 35:25
force 29:2
forced 26:14
forcing 36:11
forgoing 55:12
form 34:17 47:9
formula 19:13
formulation

19:7

forum 24:20

foster 12:6
fostering 55:14
found 20:22

52:20,23

four-year 10:3
free 4:10,15

37:2

Freedom 41:16
freely 26:11
friend 55:10
function 27:12
fund 24:6 30:22

30:23 54:16
fundamental

31:24

funded 23:8
funding 9:18

11:22 12:9,16
12:17,18,23
14:4,12,18
55:12

fundraiser 55:3

55:5

funds 12:10

14:14,19,20
17:8,17 21:17
21:18,23 23:3
34:11 38:4,5
further 42:15

56:23

furthering

56:21

furthers 3:20

G

G 3:1
GEN 1:18 2:5

25:8

general 1:18 9:8

19:8 25:7,10
25:19 26:4,7
27:2,18 28:9
29:9,25 30:10
30:21,25 31:5
31:13,15,18
32:10 33:7,25
34:9,20 35:9

35:19 36:18
37:14 38:15
39:4,20 40:15
40:25 41:3,10
41:14,23 42:7
43:7 44:1,24
45:15,22 46:6
46:8 47:11
48:1,5,8,15,17
48:24 49:5,7
50:8,17 51:14
52:7,17 53:7
54:3

53:6 56:6,12

goes 7:9
going 4:4,6 5:1

6:23 7:13
13:18,23,25
14:11 15:11,21
16:7,24 27:13
28:15,17 33:3
33:20 35:5,17
38:10,11 39:2
42:16,17 44:7
49:6,6 51:21
56:2,12

generally 14:22

good 14:8 16:14

18:25 34:7
36:4

generate 22:18
generous 27:5
generously 23:3
gentleman 56:2
getting 35:6
Ginsburg 5:21
6:4,11 10:3,19
11:3,14,20
13:20 14:1,5
19:10,18 37:8
37:14 47:25
48:14,16 54:17
54:21,25 55:2
give 12:13 13:25

19:12,16,17
20:2 32:22
41:19,24 42:16
42:17 44:12,12
46:21 49:8
given 10:20

22:22,23 29:21
43:17 52:25

gives 10:23

38:18 43:22,25

giving 43:1

49:13

global 47:3
go 15:16 16:23

21:16,24 32:24
33:10 38:25
39:16 46:21

16:18 55:3
gotten 32:22
government

3:12 4:10,21
5:4,4,15,17,21
7:6,11 8:17
9:16 18:21
27:12,20,22
28:21 34:24
35:5 42:3 46:3
46:4,9

governmental

3:21 4:14

government's
24:22 55:23
governor 44:6

44:11 45:4

gravamen 30:2

great 9:9 25:2

49:18

29:21

greater 8:23
9:15 19:23
27:9,9 29:12
44:20

ground 30:12
grounds 32:3
guess 15:18
guy 56:12
H
hand 11:1
hands 38:24

happen 46:25
happened 43:8
happens 33:4

45:20

harassment

56:5

hard 27:8 28:11

28:17 38:22
40:13 56:18
harder 31:19
harm 4:2
harmful 4:10

32:7

harms 3:18
head 11:21
hear 3:3
heart 16:2
held 42:21
helpful 52:9
Herman 1:16
2:3,8 3:6,7,9
4:1,13,18,23
5:3,9,12,15,19
6:4,13,18,20
7:1,8,12,15,22
8:5,11,14 9:1,3
9:21 10:9,16
11:3,20 12:20
12:22 13:3,8
14:1,10 15:8
15:22 16:16
17:2,10,13,16
18:1,6,11,18
19:4,9,18 20:3
20:16,20 21:2
21:6,13,19
22:2,8,12,15
22:24 23:5,18
23:21 24:8,19
24:21 25:6
54:5,6,8,20,24
55:4,9 56:9,16
56:25

he'll 9:7 12:16
higher 45:25
54:16 55:14
highly 10:23

62

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

19:24
hire 39:1
hold 53:13
home 16:13
Honor 4:1 5:19

7:8 8:5,14
12:20 14:10
18:6

house 9:24 12:3
hypo 50:9,18,20

51:4,15

hypothetical

51:10,13
I
idea 53:5
identified 46:23
identifies 46:18
identify 42:14
identifying 45:1
II 20:4
impact 27:10

31:3

implicated 36:1

36:11 48:10

implicating

15:10

implicit 39:22
important 22:14

27:19 39:5
50:23

importantly

42:8

imposed 7:6
imposing 15:6
imposition 21:5
inappropriate

18:20

inasmuch 24:9
incidentally

23:9

incomplete 9:22
incorruptible

23:16,19

increase 11:9
increases 3:21
incumbency

9:11 39:13

incumbent 9:3
9:13,14 13:5
13:17

incumbents

9:17 10:7,10
24:4 26:25
27:7 29:12
39:13 40:3

independence

33:20 34:3
independent

23:15,18 33:19
55:11

independently

independent-e...

34:6

55:19

indicate 22:21
indicates 17:23
indication 7:19
indifferent
14:13,16

individual 24:23

31:11 32:13
38:10 47:1,3

infinite 23:7
influence 3:22

27:9 44:20
inform 56:1
information
24:23 37:10

informing 37:22
informs 41:16
inherent 9:12
instances 43:21
institute 12:8
intend 34:25
intended 6:6,16
intends 55:22
intent 25:22

55:16

interest 13:14

14:23,23 15:11
15:14,24 36:21
55:10,14

interested 24:5

24:9,11,12
53:16,18

interests 36:10

37:7 44:4
interpreting

introduction

47:13

50:2

32:2,3

invalidate 30:11

invalidity 31:17
involvement

19:23

involves 3:11
irrational 44:13
issue 23:13

36:21 40:18
41:2 42:23
53:24

issues 36:1

J
JACK 1:3
job 39:2
join 39:23
joint 51:25
judging 30:8
judgment 39:19

jurisprudence

40:4,6

11:11

Justice 1:19 3:3
3:9,23 4:7,13
4:14,19,20,23
5:3,9,10,13,17
5:21 6:4,11,14
6:15,19,21 7:1
7:4,9,12,13,16
7:22 8:2,7,12
8:22 9:1,2,16
10:3,8,12,17
10:18,19 11:3
11:14,20 12:14
12:21 13:1,4,8
13:20 14:1,5
14:21 15:8,17
16:12,18,25

17:3,6,11,15
17:18 18:1,2,9
18:13,18,24
19:5,10,18,21
20:3,11,16,17
20:25 21:4,8
21:16,19,22
22:5,10,13,20
23:2,9,16,19
24:2,8,16,20
25:5,10,17
26:1,4,5,20
27:11,18,20
28:1,9,19 29:9
29:15,19,25
30:7,18,24
31:1,5,13,16
31:18 32:5,16
32:24 33:7,18
34:1,5,20 35:9
35:15 36:14
37:8,14 38:6
38:16,23 39:4
39:7,20 40:14
40:17 41:1,7
41:11,21 42:4
43:4,20 44:1
44:17 45:8
46:2,7,17,17
47:12,25 48:3
48:6,14,16,16
50:1,10 51:8
52:2,11,23
54:3,8,17,21
54:25 55:2,7,7
56:7,10,24

K
keep 47:12

49:23

keeping 53:18
Kennedy 17:6
17:11,15,18
18:1,2,9,13,19
18:24 19:5,21
20:3 22:5,10
22:13,20 28:19

63

Alderson Reporting Company

29:9,16,19,25
30:7,19,24
31:1,6,13,16
31:18 32:16
34:5

Kennedy's

46:18

kick 37:4
kicks 43:25
kind 16:11

28:20 29:3,23
33:5

know 9:19 19:6

19:25 29:4
30:18,21 31:8
31:8,24,25
38:25 39:23
40:22 43:10
44:11 50:11
56:14,14

knowledge 4:4

L

ladder 10:14
larger 53:12
latest 6:16
Laughter 10:15

13:7 23:20
24:15,18 27:17
55:6

law 20:1,17 31:1

40:20 50:1
leaving 47:21
led 45:18
left 54:18
legislates 13:12
legislating 13:13
legislative 43:9

43:11

legitimate 3:20
level 8:15 12:14
13:2,6 14:16
14:25 15:11
22:8,10 27:21
28:5 39:6 41:1
43:6 46:1
53:11,12,13,16

Official - Subject to Final Review

53:19

leveling 11:13
12:24 13:15
14:21 15:8,15
15:18,18 39:7
39:8 42:5
53:21,21 55:8
55:8,10

leveling-the-pl...

leveling-up

13:11

49:20

45:19

levels 28:7 33:15

liberty 19:12
lid 13:22 14:2,9
lifted 50:24
likes 43:10
limit 13:24 20:9

20:25 21:2
23:6,7,8 26:19
30:21 31:23
41:12 42:12
43:13,14 44:7
45:24 46:10,20
46:24 49:14
limitation 42:5
limitations 20:5

28:3

limited 25:14
limiting 34:18

42:8,9

limits 9:18 14:7
15:1,4,7 20:8
20:22,24 21:25
22:2 26:22,24
27:5 39:8,25
42:15 44:3
45:9 48:25
49:22,24 50:13
50:19,19,24
52:19 54:23
55:14 56:13

line 52:16
lines 41:24

46:15

link 36:16,20

little 6:13 44:8
lobbying 41:18

41:22

local 44:8 45:5
long 50:25
look 7:2 15:12

26:17 27:12,24
30:3 32:7,8,20
32:25 36:22
43:9,11 44:11
51:25

looking 27:22
lot 5:6 9:24

19:14 28:16
39:12

loved 32:22
low 27:8 38:21
39:25 40:1,13
49:23

lower 44:22

M

mainstream

25:3

maintained

50:25

majority 55:12
making 4:24
18:7 39:17
52:12

man 46:4
manipulable

46:15

match 12:18
matter 1:12 25:1

30:21 42:20
57:3

McConnell

35:12 52:22

mean 6:11 8:2,7

10:12 12:15
23:14,25 24:2
31:6 35:3,19
37:5 39:21
43:7 46:15
48:10,24 49:2
50:8,21 53:8

minimum 31:7

noncorrupting

43:19 44:18
45:3 46:5
54:17 56:8,18
56:19,19

mortgaged 12:3
mount 34:11
mouth 27:16

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
name 17:8
national 11:6
nature 31:7

37:18

37:24

necessary 34:11

need 24:16
needs 34:13
never 10:1,1

54:14,14

newspaper 41:8

newspapers

41:9

40:19

44:15

non-affluent
5:25 10:22

non-incumbent

non-incumbents

9:7

9:18

normal 31:21
NRCC 55:4
number 10:9
17:14 44:5

numbers 9:25
10:2,4 51:25

O
O 2:1 3:1
objective 13:2
obligation 19:15
obviously 24:3

36:11

occur 32:9
occurred 9:24

32:8

odd 25:12 39:21

office 44:19

49:25

45:20

offices 44:23
Oh 33:3
okay 41:19,24
50:21 56:11

once 46:24
one-half 26:25
open 9:8
opens 32:8
operate 37:25
42:20 51:23
52:8

operates 6:6
48:9 51:24
OPFA 17:14
opinion 34:6
39:22,23,24
41:24 47:7

opponent 4:5,25
5:2,25 7:3 8:19
8:21 9:3 13:25
21:10,24 22:4
22:6 33:1 38:3
42:17,18 45:12
45:24,25 46:13
46:20 51:3,11
51:19 52:14
53:18 54:12,20
54:22

opponents 16:7

43:12 49:24
opponent's 4:6

opportunities

22:7

47:23

opportunity
23:6 26:11
49:21

opposed 23:7
opposing 8:9
32:17 53:2

opposite 36:17

53:4

56:10

means 12:6
22:17 26:1
47:22

mechanism

42:13 44:25

meeting 9:7
members 13:17
mere 32:10
meritorious

10:23

million 6:17 7:3
7:24 8:4,6,20
8:21 50:14
54:11,13,25

millionaire

12:15 23:17
50:11

millionaires

10:11,13 39:15
52:21

millions 12:17
mind 32:16

47:12

32:19

minor 11:23
29:21 45:24
minutes 54:5
Mitt 24:12
modest 3:19
12:6 22:17
37:6

moment 24:10
money 3:25 4:4

6:1 12:11
13:23 16:22
18:19 19:17
20:12,12 23:12
24:13 25:16,24
27:8 28:11,16
28:17,19,20
33:21,22 34:17
34:22 35:1
38:2,13,20,22
39:11,14 40:2
40:9,13 43:18

64

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

option 19:22

43:15

25:8

oral 1:12 2:2 3:7

order 26:8 37:24
ordinary 28:17
organization

36:8 41:18,22
41:25

organizations

42:1

original 47:14
originally 14:6
ostensible 8:13
ought 53:5
outcome 13:14
outset 33:12
outside 30:14

33:22

outspent 7:24
8:20 54:11

out-of-bounds

13:19

overall 6:2
owners 40:19

P

P 3:1
PACs 23:12
page 2:2 47:14

52:1

pamphlets

40:23

parity 51:1,18
54:10,12,16

part 15:6 29:20
participate 12:7
particular 19:6

24:4 30:19
35:1 40:18
41:2,15 44:19
44:21 47:9
particularly
24:12 29:1
35:22 42:14
parties 10:21
18:5 21:18

24:5 29:17
30:22 43:12,16
43:16

party 5:7,7 8:9
11:6,23 17:12
17:22,22 19:2
19:11,15,16,19
19:21,23 20:6
20:6,7 22:6,7
22:13,19,22,22
23:12,24 28:23
28:24 29:5,6
29:13 30:4,13
30:20 32:21,22
34:3 38:23,25
45:2,25 46:21
46:21 47:2,5,8
48:12

party's 22:25
24:7 31:10

pass 37:3
passed 27:4

PAUL 1:18 2:5

40:20

25:8

pay 26:15 40:22
pays 12:19
pebbles 27:16
penalized 25:17
penalizes 3:17
penalty 26:2,6,8

26:9

pensions 12:4
people 10:22
12:6 15:14
16:13 27:3
34:8 35:17
39:1 40:20
41:9

percent 17:14
percentage

33:24

perception
10:24 11:9

perfectly 27:6
permissible

14:23

person 7:9 16:8
19:14,20 48:19

personal 3:13

9:18 14:2 17:8

personally

Petitioner 53:3

12:11

53:5

PG&E 26:16
phenomenon

38:17

picture 48:20
place 47:22
plaintiff 32:19
plausibility 7:17
players 13:16,18
playing 8:15

11:13 12:15,24
13:2,6,16,16
14:16,22,24
15:9,12,12,15
15:18 27:13,21
28:5,7 39:6,10
39:12,17 41:1
42:5 53:1
plays 13:19
please 3:10

25:11

39:24

point 16:18 30:4

35:12 37:20
42:11,19 51:9
51:17,20 52:13

pointed 37:9
political 3:15,17

5:4,18 6:3
24:17

portion 46:19
pose 53:23
position 5:5,6,6

6:22 17:21
29:21,23 38:5
positions 23:1
possibility 20:8
32:9,11 47:2

potent 29:1

potential 34:14

38:20 45:11

potentially 8:11

8:11 28:18
power 39:18

41:11

practical 42:19
practice 51:22

precedent 29:4
precise 19:7

52:8

35:1

precisely 33:5
preclude 40:1
precludes 34:18
preferring

29:23

prefers 31:2
presents 24:7
presidency

45:23

presidential

49:7

Press 41:16
presumably

43:23

prevail 9:6
pre-election

price 16:13 46:2
prices 46:8
primaries 9:24
primary 9:5,7

36:6

42:8,9 44:4
51:1,2 52:18
54:10,12
prior 54:18
private 4:22
12:10 14:19
55:13

probably 33:11
problem 14:8
37:8 40:11
43:21,24 45:6
46:19,23 47:8

47:20

problematic
19:25 20:18
34:23

problems 20:15
proceeded 44:15
produce 6:3
prohibit 21:17

21:22

prohibited

21:23

proper 27:12
properly 30:8
proponents

proportionality

43:12

51:1

proportions

31:17

proposition 5:14

20:1 26:9

protected 3:17
protection 49:20

53:9,25
prove 26:5
provide 15:5
providing 4:5
11:23 12:24
provision 3:19

14:4 16:19
30:6 37:6
39:15 47:18
48:10 51:22
52:21 55:25

30:24 31:1
33:15 37:24
47:17 52:24
public 10:23

11:22 12:8,16
12:17,18,23
14:4,12,18,20
24:10,11 42:16
45:21,22 49:3
49:6

publish 35:5
pulling 10:14

principle 39:21

provisions 17:7

plurality 39:22

16:6

65

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

purported 17:16
purportedly

18:21

purpose 3:21

13:10,11 28:5
55:25

purposes 49:11
purview 16:1
put 14:9 38:3
43:18 52:17
puts 29:22,22

Q

qualified 10:5
qualitative

52:12

quality 28:20
quantitative

52:13

quarter 16:19
quarterly 16:6
question 3:12
19:11 27:20
32:13 46:18
48:17 53:7,11
55:8

questionable

questions 51:7

18:14

56:23

quite 9:17 15:9

33:17 52:8

quote 6:8 8:15

54:10

quoted 24:24

R

R 3:1
race 16:20,23

44:6,11,13,21
44:21 45:4,4
45:10,13,19

races 42:14 45:1
radically 41:4
Ragan 41:5
raise 11:24 12:9
20:7,15 21:17

38:4,5 40:2
42:15 51:3,5,6
54:13 56:8

raised 8:19 12:4

56:19

34:11

raising 21:17,23

Randall 39:22
rapid 50:4
rarely 24:25

33:20

rational 51:21
rationale 28:3,4

28:11 42:5
reached 31:9

38:3

reaches 43:6
reaching 6:7
react 43:2
reacting 38:17
read 11:11
ready 56:8
realize 43:13
realized 31:21
really 6:9 16:2
23:25 27:11
29:17 36:22
37:5 38:8 40:4
42:24 43:7
49:12,20,22
52:19 53:9,17
53:24 55:19

reason 6:5 8:22
13:9 25:1 30:2

reasonable

20:23 56:12
reasons 10:20

14:24

REBUTTAL

2:7 54:6

receive 17:11,13
received 8:16

10:1

recognize 27:7
34:13 48:22

recognized

28:12,14 38:22

41:6

66

Alderson Reporting Company

42:2 44:14
45:7 49:10
recognizes

26:12

recognizing
25:20 27:24
49:9,17

record 10:4

26:17 30:3,4
30:11,12,15,15
31:9 43:9,11
48:9 51:25
52:10,22 56:6

rectify 15:5
refer 20:4
reference 56:17
referring 9:25
reflected 36:7
reflects 44:3
regard 25:25
regime 27:6,23

28:7 36:23
38:18 41:17
42:20 45:17
regimes 28:2
regulate 3:12
regulatory 43:2
reject 11:1
relatively 27:8

29:21 37:6
38:21 40:13
49:23

relaxation 44:2
relaxed 31:21
40:15 51:5
53:22 54:22
relevant 17:5

25:24

relieved 40:21
reluctant 39:18
rely 52:5
remedial 53:10
replace 14:20
reports 16:6
represent 16:9
Representation

representative
44:9,13 45:5

representatives

10:5 13:5

Republican 5:7
require 36:15

requirement

37:9

35:14

requirements
34:22 35:2,11
35:17,21 37:4
47:22

requires 34:24

55:20

requiring 56:6
reserve 25:4
resources 24:7
respect 19:11

31:2 33:7 39:6
respected 40:9
respectfully

7:22

respective 18:5
respond 4:22,25

5:4 26:12
responding
40:20 41:9
response 11:7

45:16

responses 4:15
responsive 45:6
rest 47:10 56:11
restrict 38:10
restriction 3:24
21:9 38:7 49:2
restrictions 7:5

20:13,14,18
21:1,3,5,11,14
53:4

restrictive 11:18

11:19

result 5:24
retirement 9:4
Reynolds 17:9
17:10,11,21

re-election 9:14

re-even 53:1
right 4:12 7:7
9:20 10:18
19:17 23:17
33:25 35:20
38:14 40:24
50:7,20 51:15
53:8 56:9,15
rights 7:5 36:7
41:13 49:11

ring 7:17
road 15:16
ROBERTS 3:3
3:23 4:7,14,20
5:13,17 16:25
20:11,17 21:8
24:2,16,20
25:5 34:20
35:15 36:14
38:6 40:17
41:1,7,11,21
42:4 43:4 50:1
50:10 51:8
52:2,11 54:3
56:24

Romney 24:12
rules 31:21
run 11:12 16:20
runs 9:14
S
S 2:1 3:1
sake 46:22 47:7
sales 40:22
sanctioned 12:7
sat 11:11
satisfies 49:14
satisfy 3:19
saying 4:11 7:10

8:8 12:18
13:18 24:24
28:21,21 29:2
30:7,10 40:20
says 4:8 5:1 6:23

9:16 13:23
28:22 29:5
34:6 47:16

53:8

Scalia 5:3,9,10

7:4,9,12,13
9:16 10:8,12
10:17,18 12:14
12:21 13:1,4,8
15:17 16:12,18
20:25 21:4,22
23:16,19 25:17
26:1,4,5 27:11
27:18 28:1,10
32:5,24 33:8
38:23 39:4,7
39:20 40:14
46:2,7 48:3,6
52:23 56:7,10

Scalia's 55:8
scheme 5:24 6:2

45:21 49:3,7

scope 29:12
seat 9:8
seats 10:24
second 47:2
secret 16:3
section 3:16,18

4:2 5:1 6:5
15:13 25:14
43:17 47:13
see 7:20 31:11

32:7 33:4
43:11

seeks 3:16
seen 11:12 54:15
sees 46:19
segment 29:6
self 23:8 24:24

38:18

42:25

self-expenditu...

self-finance

28:14,16 51:22

self-financed
4:24 6:7 12:1
15:1 21:20
23:11 33:19
38:1 48:21
50:6,15 51:10

Official - Subject to Final Review

52:4,15 55:21

self-financer

11:8 34:3
50:22 56:5
self-finances

42:17,19

self-financing

14:9 26:19
34:16 37:2
40:8,12 42:13
43:3,5,14,15
49:2 50:3 56:3

self-funders

16:3

self-funding
34:19 36:17

sell 40:23
Senate 43:18
senators 10:5

13:5

sense 35:20 48:4
September 9:23
serious 43:21,23

43:24

serves 55:25,25
severable 47:9
47:17,19 48:2

show 18:16
shows 42:2
side 8:3 12:15

12:19 15:19,20
26:11 52:25
56:8

side's 26:15
significant

23:13 24:13
28:2 33:23
36:3

similar 33:17
53:4 55:18
simply 21:4

29:24 51:11
56:5,5

single 6:10
sit 39:19
situation 33:5
skewing 28:18

sky 13:24
smoking 4:9 5:5
soft 34:17 56:18
Solicitor 1:18

31:13

somebody 4:8

28:15 36:7
40:2 43:25
44:10 45:22

somewhat 18:14
Sorrell 39:23
sorry 18:1
sort 25:12 35:7
sorts 34:7
sounds 49:19,19

53:9

source 14:14

40:7,7

sources 33:22

55:13

Souter 6:15,19
6:21 7:1,16,22
8:2,7,12

speak 26:10
39:1 48:22

speaking 5:22
speaks 7:10
special 34:21

35:16

specific 18:25
spectacular

24:14

speech 3:18 4:6
4:15,17,22,25
5:4,18,25 6:3,9
7:11 11:8
15:19,20,25
18:19,22,23
20:12 26:15,16
28:20 29:3,7
29:24 34:22
35:18 43:19
46:7 48:20

spend 3:25 5:23
6:1,16,23 8:6
12:16 13:22,24
16:22 19:14

21:10 25:23
28:16 37:13
38:19 40:8
50:9 51:20
55:22 56:20,21

spending 3:13

8:3,9 25:14,18
25:21 34:25
45:2 46:5 50:6
51:4,18

spends 4:4 38:1

50:11,22

spent 7:3 8:4,10

24:12 25:15
36:12 44:22
50:12

stage 11:16

53:10

standard 3:20
standing 31:12

32:13,15 33:12
52:20

start 15:10

26:10 28:10
55:22 56:14
startling 10:4
State 12:12 44:7

44:14 45:5

statement 18:15

20:1

States 1:1,13

16:14,18 44:5
statistics 9:21
status 9:15
statute 6:12,14
8:13,15,18,23
10:20 11:2,4
13:21,23 14:6
14:8,15 17:4,7
17:18 18:9,11
18:25 19:6
21:14,17 27:4
28:21,25 29:14
29:19,23 30:9
30:11 31:14
32:2,3 33:16
37:25 43:24

67

Alderson Reporting Company

47:6,9,13,21
47:24 48:9
52:8 53:22,24
54:15 55:20
56:11

statutory 25:16
step 4:3 6:10

16:24

Stevens 21:16
21:20 23:2,9
33:18 34:1
stifling 7:7
strain 24:7
strange 26:21
strategy 31:4
strikes 34:23
stronger 14:23
struck 14:3
subject 21:9,10
21:14 45:10,25

submit 56:18
submitted 57:1

57:3

subset 28:15
subsidy 46:3,4,9
substantial

25:15 31:17
32:18 49:3
substantially

substantiate

44:9

8:12

substantive

sufficiently

37:24

46:15

suggest 25:13
26:17 34:1

suggested 27:19
suggesting 40:5

super-severab...

51:4

47:16

support 17:21

18:4 19:2 22:6
22:9,11,13,18
22:19,22,23

Official - Subject to Final Review

supports 5:13
suppose 17:18
44:10 50:24
52:23 53:1

supposedly 11:5
Supreme 1:1,13
sure 15:9,19
24:16 35:20
39:10 50:8
surely 44:13
surprised 27:4
suspicious 28:6
synonymous

18:19

system 12:9

14:12,13,19
24:1,3 29:10
37:11 52:15

T

T 2:1,1
table 50:13
tailored 38:7
tailoring 17:4
take 4:10 5:16

9:10 11:25
12:11,16 14:18
20:13 23:12
31:14 44:18,18
44:20 49:6
54:5,22

taken 14:25 30:5

30:13
takes 4:8
talk 15:14 18:7
25:19 27:15

talked 20:4
34:21 36:5
talking 13:15
14:5 15:17
16:12 17:4
44:23,25 50:11
50:18

talks 18:11
tax 40:21,22

41:7,8,9,17,20
41:25

Taxation 41:5
taxing 41:11
television 4:8
38:9,11,13

ten 16:23
terms 49:20
terribly 32:25
Thank 25:5 54:2

54:3,8 56:24

theoretical

32:11

theory 18:15
25:21 46:12
48:3,9

they'd 12:10
thing 16:3 24:22

25:24 30:17
35:7 40:16
46:13 47:4,5
47:12 53:20

things 5:6 19:11

30:1 33:8,11
45:15 46:25
53:14

think 6:2,19

7:23 8:22 9:25
11:21 13:1,4
15:15 16:14,25
17:2,4 20:13
24:2 25:20,24
26:7,8,12,17
26:23 27:2,3,5
27:11,18 30:3
31:23,24 32:1
32:3,10,12,14
32:19 33:10,25
34:9,10,12,13
34:15,16 35:12
35:24,25 36:10
36:15,18,21
37:5,11,15,17
37:19,20,22,23
38:13,15,16
39:5,21 40:3
41:3 42:1,8,10
42:11,19,22
43:8,23 44:4

44:16,24 45:6
47:14,15,20
48:1 49:9,16
49:24 50:20,21
51:6,15,20,24
52:7,9,15

third 21:18 47:4
thought 11:14
11:15 21:23
31:19 32:5
48:14 52:2

three 6:23 46:25

47:1,22

threshold 6:8,24
tied 19:13
ties 19:23
time 4:4 13:21
25:4,23 30:12
30:13 37:12
38:9,11,13,24
39:2 41:19

times 6:23 16:23

34:2 47:1

timing 35:22
today 3:4
Tom 17:10
top 11:21
Tornillo 26:16
total 33:24

44:22

totality 7:3
touch 16:8
treasurer 45:5
treated 29:2
treatment 18:3
tremendous

38:19

trigger 37:21
triggered 10:10

12:5 35:22
37:16,17

triggering 6:8
triggers 25:16
triple 49:22
true 34:10 36:4

51:12

truly 11:22

trust 13:5,18
try 15:5
trying 11:18
26:18 27:21
39:6 42:12,24
43:2,4,5

Tuesday 1:10
tune 23:24 50:14
turns 24:10
twice 25:15 50:5

50:9,15 51:6
two 9:4 19:11

30:1 31:8 33:8
42:18 45:15
47:1,22 53:14

type 4:9
U

ultimate 23:18
23:19 34:17
56:17,18

ultimately 16:1

16:10

unconstitutio...

17:3,24,25
18:5,16,17
20:2 47:17,18
48:18,19

underfunded

28:22

underlies 28:11
understand 26:8
30:14,15 39:7
39:9

understanding
46:24 50:17,20
51:15

undue 3:21
unemployed

38:24

uneven 21:5
uniformly 13:13
United 1:1,13

16:14,17

unlimited 11:7

17:12 20:6
25:21 28:14

40:8,12

unprecedented

45:17

unquote 6:8

8:15

unwise 15:25
upcoming 8:24
upheld 14:3

20:5,9 41:17

useful 37:22

56:13

usually 7:4

24:25

V

v 1:5 3:4 39:23
valid 11:17 13:1
validity 30:9
vast 55:12,12
veterans 41:25

42:1

vice 19:6
view 52:24
views 34:7
violative 20:18

20:20

virtues 33:18
vis-a-vis 18:4

48:23

vital 22:15,16
vote 16:9
voters 16:1,10

23:22

W
wait 33:3
want 14:18,19
16:11 19:6,25
23:23,23,25
30:17 31:25
34:5,15 37:25
38:1,3 40:23
49:20

wanted 12:1,6
wants 3:25 5:23

19:12 23:24
49:23 52:4

68

Alderson Reporting Company

54:25

Washington 1:9

1:16,19

wasn't 6:15

32:23

wasteful 15:25
way 12:7,7 16:4

22:18 24:5
26:8 34:25
35:23 37:19
39:19,21 42:22
44:15 48:7
51:11,23 53:5

ways 34:10

39:25

wealth 40:19
wealthier 3:24
10:21 18:21

wealthiest 10:25
wealthy 5:23

16:8,13 17:20
18:12 19:14
20:14 21:24
34:6 38:8,10
38:12 50:4,14

well-funded
19:2,3,22

went 7:25 9:17

42:10,15 54:24

weren't 15:1
33:13 42:11

We'll 3:3
we're 13:18,23
13:24 15:17
16:24 27:13
38:10,11 42:16
42:17 52:18

we've 10:1 28:2
whatsoever 3:24
willing 12:12
26:2 32:22
win 5:8 24:25
wishes 56:20
withheld 41:17
word 11:12
words 47:9

works 37:19
world 15:3
worried 39:8
worth 25:20

35:24 49:9,17

worthy 22:19
wouldn't 11:12

12:14 15:2
36:14

write 34:5
writing 35:4
written 47:7
wrong 11:15
32:2 37:18

X

x 1:2,8 13:22
26:25 27:1

Y
yoke 49:23

Z
zero 45:24
$

$1.15 54:25
$1.4 8:20 54:13
$10,000 36:24
37:9,13,16,22
$2 8:4,6 51:20
$2,000 44:12,14
$2,300 43:22

45:11

$2,301 45:11
$2300 11:5,24

49:22 53:13,19

$3 7:24 8:21

54:11

$350,000 6:8
9:18 12:4
16:15 37:3
45:3 55:23
$400,000 12:5
$42,000 20:9

23:7
$5 7:3

Official - Subject to Final Review

war 39:13 54:18

50:15

8

89 52:1

$50,000 46:11
$500,000 50:12
$6,900 43:25

45:14

$6900 11:5

0

07-320 1:5 3:4

1

1,000 44:12
10:02 1:14 3:2
100 17:13
11:01 57:2
110 10:5
14-2 9:19
2

2 10:10
2X 26:25 27:2
2,000 44:7
2004 48:12
2006 6:18 9:23

9:24 16:20

2008 1:10
22 1:10
24-hour 35:13

37:11
25 2:6
28 47:14
3

3 2:4
319 3:16,19 4:2
5:1 6:6 9:10
12:1 16:2
25:14 43:17

4
401 47:13
42 20:9

5

54 2:9

6

6 10:6
60 10:10

69

Alderson Reporting Company

