Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS 
: 
          
:
COMMISSION, ET AL., 
             
:
         
 Petitioners 
:  No. 07-582 
                       
: 
FOX TELEVISION STATIONS, 
        
INC., ET AL. 
: 
                    
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Tuesday, November 4, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:05 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Solicitor General,

 Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
 the Petitioners. 

CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf

 of the Respondents. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                    

3


CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondents 

                   

28


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                   

59


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:05 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument first this morning in Case 07-582, Federal 
Communications Commission versus Fox Television 
Stations.

 Mr. Garre.  Solicitor General Garre.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

 GENERAL GARRE:  Thank you, 

Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:

 This case involves a challenge to the 

efforts of the Federal Communications Commission to 
carry out its statutory mandate under 18 U.S.C. 1464, 
and more even-handedly address indecent material that is 
broadcast directly into the home during the time of day 
when children are likely to be in the viewing audience.

 After reconsidering its policy in this area, 
the Commission determined that an enforcement action may 
be appropriate in the case of indecent language that is 
isolated as well as repeated.  Because the Commission 
provided a reasoned explanation for that change in 
course, the court of appeals erred in invalidating its 
action under the Administrative Procedures Act.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Did it -- did it reconsider 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

its policy?  In the first order, I would -- I would have 
gathered that it had, but its second order said 
basically, we've never had a policy that single use of 
these expletives is okay.  Which is it?  Are they 
changing their policy or not?

 GENERAL GARRE:  They did change the policy, 
Justice Scalia, and the Commission directly acknowledged 
that in paragraph 12 of the Golden Globe Awards order, 
which is not reprinted in the petition appendix.  In 
that paragraph, the Commission said, "We now depart from 
cases holding that isolated or fleeting use of the 
F-Word was not indecent."

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  The latest order, the one 
that's up here, says that all of the statements to that 
effect in the past were simply staff statements and that 
the Commission had never held to that effect before.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, the court of appeals 

recognized, and we think correctly so, that the 
Commission did change its position on that.  The 
Commission had never brought an enforcement action 
against a broadcaster for the isolated use of an 
expletive, and the Commission made clear in the orders 
it issued in this case, beginning with the Golden Globe 
Awards order and the particular omnibus and remand 
orders before this Court, that it was taking a change in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

regulatory course in determining that it was appropriate 
to bring an enforcement action where there was an 
isolated incident of an expletive if the context 
suggested that it would be indecent in that situation.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, is the agency's 

position that its policy has changed or that it has not 
changed?

 GENERAL GARRE:  That it has changed, 

Justice Kennedy, and the court of appeals recognized 
that at pages 20a to 21a of the decision.  And we think 
this Court has recognized --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, the court 

recognized, but it seems to me the FCC -- and this is 
what Justice Scalia's questions go in part to -- in the 
remand order at first it said its policy hadn't changed.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, I think there were 

some statements, we would acknowledge that, in different 
places.  But if you go to the heart of where the FCC 
grappled with this, paragraph -- paragraph 12 of the 
Golden Globe Awards order, it specifically disavowed its 
prior decisions in which it had said that isolated 
expletives would not warrant an enforcement action under 
1464, and it specifically said, "we are departing from 
our policy."  We -- after all, it didn't impose --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  But I think it rewrote that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

in its last order, and I think it even explained away 
the Golden Globe statement by saying it was not as 
categorical as it might appear.

 GENERAL GARRE:  I think if you look at maybe 

pages 82 to 83 of the petition appendix here, where we 
discuss that as well, I think it made clear with respect 
to the indecency finding involving the 2003 Billboard 
Music Awards and the 2002 Billboard Music Awards, that 
in applying its contextual analysis in the past it 
focused on whether or not expletives were repeated or 
dwelled upon.  In this case, the Commission determined 
that it was not going to be guided exclusively by that 
consideration and that it was going to take into account 
all contextual factors, including the explicit and 
graphic nature of the language used.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Do you think, in 

terms of our legal review, it makes a difference whether 
it's a change or whether it's a continuation of a prior 
policy?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Certainly, I would be 
defending it if the Court thought that it wasn't a 
change, and it would have been inappropriate for the 
Second Circuit to invalidate that as arbitrary and 
capricious.  We have -- we think it was a change.  The 
language that the Commission used indicated that it was 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

departing from its prior understanding, and we are here 
defending -- either way, we are here defending --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I guess my question 
is, do you think a different legal standard applies when 
an agency changes a prior position as opposed to 
articulating its position for the first time?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, this Court has said 
that it's desirable for agencies to reconsider and to 
change its policy from time to time, but when --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Wasn't the Commission --
the Commission asked the Second Circuit, said:  We've 
changed our policy; we want you to remand the case to 
the Commission so the Commission can explain what its 
new policy.  I mean, isn't that how this whole thing 
arose?  The case was in the Second Circuit and the 
Commission said it wanted to have an opportunity to 
explain its position more fully?

 GENERAL GARRE:  It is, and it did in the 

remand order reprinted in the petition appendix.

 Mr. Chief Justice, I think either way the 

ultimate standard is arbitrary and capriciousness.  Now, 
the Respondents have focused on whether or not we have 
complied with the criteria that the Court has looked to 
in determining whether or not a change in agency 
position is arbitrary and capricious.  And we think that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there are three factors here that must lead to the 
conclusion that it was not arbitrary and capricious.

 One, we think that the Commission did 

directly acknowledge its change in position.  Two, the 
Commission provided a concrete explanation for that 
change.  And, three, that explanation is at a minimum 
plausible and consistent with the Commission's statutory 
mandate.  This Court has never invalidated a change in 
agency position where those three factors have been 
present.

 And if you look at the three principal 

justifications that the agency used in explaining its 
change in position, I think it's absolutely clear that 
this was at a minimum a rational policy choice that the 
agency was committed -- was permitted to take under the 
Administrative Procedures Act.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  One of the problems is 

that, seeing it in operation, there seems to be no rhyme 
or reason for some of the decisions that the Commission 
has made.  I mean, the "Saving Private Ryan" case was 
filled with expletives, and yet the film about jazz 
history, the words were considered a violation of the 
Commission's policies.  So that there seems to be very 
little rhyme or reason to when the Commission says that 
one of these words is okay and when it says it isn't. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

GENERAL GARRE:  Well, we do think, of 

course, that there is rhyme or reason to its 
determination.  First, let me say that much of the 
vagueness type of arguments that the Respondents are 
making similar to your question could be made equally 
with respect to the Commission's policy with respect to 
repeated utterances as well as isolated utterances.

 If you take the "Saving Private Ryan" and 

the blues documentary example, those were repeated-
utterances cases.  We are here because they challenged 
the Commission's change in policy to go from repeated 
utterances to consider enforcement actions in the case 
of isolated expletives where they met its contextual 
analysis and where it was explicit, graphic, shocking or 
pandering in the context.

 Now, I think certainly there are going to be 

situations and this Court has indicated that the 
vagueness inquiry doesn't turn about coming up with 
hypotheticals at -- at the outer margins of the 
standard.

 I think in the Pacifica case our reading of 
the Court's decision is similar to the D.C.  Circuit's 
reading of that decision in the Action for Children's 
Television case, that implicit in the Court's decision 
in Pacifica was that it rejected a vagueness challenge 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to the Commission's definition of "indecency," which is 
the same definition that the Commission is applying 
today.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I suppose the most 
difficult case for you is the "Early News" case where 
you have just a fleeting expletive, unlike "Saving 
Private Ryan" and the others.  I mean, how do you 
distinguish the "Early News" case from the ones before 
us?

 GENERAL GARRE:  The Commission has 

determined that news programming would be treated 
differently, with greater restraint, because of the 
different values present in that situation.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So the same -- if 
you had a news report about Nicole Richey and the Cher 
exhibits, they -- they could use the actual language, 
even though they can't during the -- the awards shows?
 GENERAL GARRE:  Yes.  And, similarly, if 
there were a news report about the argument today in 
this Court and there were reports about the actual 
language used, that's right.  The Commission has 
exercised restraint in that area, recognizing that there 
are different values at stake than in the -- in the 
utterance of indecent language during a prime-time 
broadcast where are a substantial number of children in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the viewing audience.

 For the broadcast in this case, up to 24 to 

28 percent of the viewing audience comprised children 
under the age of 18.  This language was concededly 
gratuitous in the context it was used.  In the Nicole 
Richey example in 2003, there was an element of 
pandering as part of the dialogue consisted of Paris 
Hilton saying, "Watch your language," before Nicole 
Richey launched into dropping the S-Word and the F-Word 
in -- in a context that was, the FCC reasonably 
determined, was shocking and gratuitous and explicit and 
graphic; and, therefore, in the context in which it was 
presented, indecent under the agency's longstanding 
definition of "indecency."

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Are there only those two 
words in the FCC's new policy or are there other words 
on the list?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, certainly, the FCC's 

action in this case focuses on the use of the F-Word and 
the S-Word, and I think everyone acknowledges that a 
word like the F-Word is one of the most graphic, 
explicit, and vulgar words in the English language for 
sexual activity.  And I think even the networks here 
concede that it was -- its use was gratuitous and 
inappropriate here.  And that would control --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Isn't it true that --

isn't it true that that is a word that often is used 
with -- with no reference whatsoever to the -- the 
sexual connotation?

 GENERAL GARRE:  It can be -- it certainly 
can be used in a non-literal way.  It can be used in a 
metaphorical way, as Cher used it here, to say "F them" 
to her critics.  But the -- the non-literal/literal 
distinction is not unique to the isolated expletives 
versus the repeated effort -- expletives.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  You think it's equally --

it's equally subject to being treated as indecent within 
the meaning of the statute regardless of which meaning 
was actually apparent to everybody who listened to it?

 GENERAL GARRE:  I wouldn't say equally, 

Justice Stevens, but what we would say is that it can 
qualify as indecent under the -- under the Commission's 
definition, because even the non-literal use of a word 
like the F-Word, because of the core meaning of that 
word as one of the most vulgar, graphic, and explicit 
words for sexual activity in the English language, it 
inevitably conjures up a core sexual image.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Which is, indeed, why it's 

used.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Which is, indeed, why it's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

used as an intensifier or as an insult, and it's why the 
networks themselves -- and this is reprinted, I believe, 
at 86 of the petition appendix -- have a 24-hour rule 
that the F-Word generally should not be use on TV.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But that is an 

entirely voluntary -- I mean, the Commission would have 
no objection if the F-Word were used on a regular basis 
after 10:00 o'clock?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Outside of the safe harbor 

under this Court's decision, the -- the Commission 
recognizes that networks can use indecent language.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Although they don't, I 

gather.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Although they don't.  Their 

policies are not to use indecent language.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Because they find it 

offensive, I gather.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Because I think they 

recognize that it contravenes community standards for 
appropriateness in the broadcast medium, and that --
those policies are reprinted at pages 86a to 88a of --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How are the contemporary 

community standards determined in this context?  Does 
the FCC survey any particular audience to find out what 
their standards are? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

GENERAL GARRE:  Well, first of all, the 
community standards are community standards for the 
broadcast medium.  This is set out a little bit at page 
33 of the joint appendix at footnote 13.  Second of all, 
they look to community standards for the average 
listener.  And, third of all, the -- the Commission 
applies its expressly -- collective experience here, 
looking to statements from lawmakers, from courts, from 
broadcasters, from public interest groups, and from 
citizens to determine what is consistent with community 
standards.  And certainly the --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I suppose the 

broadcasters' own voluntary determination not to use 
that -- that language 24 hours is a reflection of what 
they think about community standards.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Absolutely.  I think it is 

an irrefutable reflection of what they think the 
appropriate community standards are.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Are you talking about 

community standards for broadcasting?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Community standards for 

broadcasting, that's right.  And, in that respect, this 
case is much different than the Reno case, for example, 
where one of the criticisms this Court had was 
uncertainty about what community standards would apply. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Another difference is -- is that here you 

have the Commission, an expert agency, making these 
determining -- making these determinations, drawing in 
part on the policies and practices of the regulated 
industry itself; for example, the self-imposed rule not 
to use the F-Word at particular times of day.

 And, of course, you have the fact that 

broadcast television has always been subject to a lesser 
standard of First Amendment scrutiny.  Now --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Still, I gather 

that's at issue with the constitutional questions.  Does 
that still have the same force today when the broadcast 
medium is only one of several that are -- that are 
available?  In other words, it seems to me that the 
Commission might not be accomplishing terribly much if 
it regulates a particular medium when all sorts of other 
media, media, are available that don't have the 
Commission's oversight.

 GENERAL GARRE:  We think it is, and we think 
it is reflected in the Court's cases.  Let me -- and let 
me explain why.  But let me first say that obviously we 
think that this Court does not need to, and should not, 
delve into the constitutional issues in resolving the 
case before it today.

 The only issue that we have presented and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the only issue decided below is whether or not the 
Commission has provided a reasoned explanation of the 
Administrative Procedures Act.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Can I -- can I ask?  You 

can go ahead.  Are you finished?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, if -- if I can answer 
the question as to the force of the Court's precedents, 
this Court has repeatedly affirmed in cases like Sable, 
in cases like Reno, in cases like Turner and Denver 
Area, that broadcasting is subject to a different and 
lesser First Amendment standard.

 The Commission in this case looked to the 

considerations that underlie that jurisprudential 
doctrine and concluded that they were still apposite, 
and that is at pages 108 to 110 of the petition 
appendix.

 Most Americans still get their information 
and entertainment from broadcast TV.  Most children --
broadcast TV is extremely accessible to children because 
all they have to do is turn it on, and then they have 
network shows that they can have access to.  And 
broadcast television is still broadcast in a way that 
invades the home, the place -- the one place where 
people typically don't expect to have uninvited, 
offensive --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Yes, but wasn't the 

rationale for the lesser standard largely the scarcity 
of the frequencies?

 GENERAL GARRE:  I think that was the 

rationale in Red -- Red Lion.  This is Court in Pacifica 
didn't rely on that rationale.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But it relied on it in Red 

Lion?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Yes.  I -- as we read the 
decision, Justice Stevens -- and I understand that you 
wrote the plurality decision there.  But, as we read the 
decision, the Court did not rest so much on the scarcity 
rationale, but, yet, on the unique pervasiveness of 
broadcasting, the unique accessibility to children, and 
the fact that broadcasting invades the home in a way 
that other technologies do not.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  That was before the 

Internet.  Pacifica was in 1978.

 GENERAL GARRE:  It was, Your Honor.  Now, in 

the Turner case this Court said at page 190 that 
broadcast medium is still the principal source of 
information in entertainment in affirming the lesser 
standard that this Court applies.

 We actually think that the fact that there 
are now additional mediums like the internet and cable 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

TV, if anything, underscores the appropriateness of a 
lower First Amendment standard or safety zone for 
broadcast TV, because Americans who want to get indecent 
programming can go to cable TV, they can go to the 
Internet.

 But broadcast TV is, as Congress designed 
that to be, the one place where Americans can turn on 
the TV at 8:00 o'clock and watch their dinner and not be 
expected to be bombarded with indecent language, either 
in an isolated basis or repeated basis.  That's a 
societal expectation that has grown up over the last 
30 years since Pacifica.  And it would be a remarkable 
thing to adopt the world that the networks are asking 
you to adopt here today, where the networks are free to 
use expletives, whether in an isolated or repeated 
basis, 24 hours a day, going from the extreme example of 
Big Bird dropping the F-bomb on Sesame Street, to the 
example of using that word during Jeopardy or opening 
the episode of American Idol --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I just have a practical 
question.  I'm just curious about this.  What are the 
networks supposed to do, or the television stations? 
They cover a lot of live events.  They're not just 
sports events.  They're also like but the Golden -- you 
know, the Emmys, the Oscars, and you deal with a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

cross-section of humanity.  And my experience is some 
parts of that cross-section swear.

 (Laughter.)
 JUSTICE BREYER:  So, what is it -- what are 
they supposed to do when the event is live, and lo and 
behold, they have a few people in front of them who 
swear, using these words?  What is their -- what can 
they do?

 GENERAL GARRE:  With respect to live 

entertainment programming, Justice Breyer, you can do 
what the networks now do, which is to have a tape delay 
which permits you to bleep out isolated or offensive --
JUSTICE BREYER:  So, what they -- what they 
now -- they now do this?  In other words, whenever they 
cover a baseball game, whenever they cover anything 
live, they have to have some kind of tape system or for 
the Emmys, everything is on tape and it's all delayed 
five seconds?

 GENERAL GARRE:  No.  It varies based on the 

type of programming.  For example, the Commission has 
acknowledged -- and this is at pages 94 to 95a of the 
petition appendix -- that their -- that breaking news 
coverage is different and that it will not approach it 
--

JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm not talking about 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

breaking news coverage.  I guess I'm talking about, you 
know, any one of -- they cover the wrestling matches, 
they cover -- you see what I'm driving at.  And I would 
like to know what is the state of the art?  You are 
saying the state of the art is right now when I turn on 
my television set, they all use a delay.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, I don't think --

that's not --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Or are you saying they all 

have to use a delay?

 GENERAL GARRE:  In a show like the Billboard 

Music Awards, they will use a delay.  And since the 
incidents in this case, the 2003 and 2002 instances, the 
networks have gotten more people who are on hand to 
bleep isolated expletives.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  They had a 5-second delay 

at the time these things occurred, didn't they?

 GENERAL GARRE:  They did, and I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  And it wasn't -- it wasn't 

that they weren't fast enough or something?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, if you look at the 
Nicole Richie example, they actually bleeped one word 
that was used, I believe --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Right, right.
 GENERAL GARRE:  -- before she got to the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

other two words.  But at that time they only had one 
person working the bleeping machine or whatever it is 
they call it.

 (Laughter.)
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  It depends on whom you are 

dealing with, right?

 GENERAL GARRE:  I think that's right.  But 

certainly there is an understanding that this is -- that 
these isolated --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Did the FCC explain all 

this in its opinion when it said, we understand that now 
we're going to have to -- every incident is going to 
have to be -- have a 5-second delay and they will have 
to have tapes, and we think it's worth the cost?  Did 
they explain all that?

 GENERAL GARRE:  It explained that --
JUSTICE BREYER:  I didn't see it.
 GENERAL GARRE:  -- in its decision in the 
petition appendix here as to the basis why enforcement 
action would be appropriate.  Because here you are 
dealing with individuals who have used inappropriate in 
the past -- Nicole Richie had used inappropriate 
language in the past.  You had an inappropriate tape 
delay, you had inappropriate measures in place to ensure 
that expletives were not used, which in the Commission's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

judgment meant that this would be an appropriate 
situation.

 If you had a different context, say a 

sporting event where there is an isolated expletive as 
part of a post-game news interview, the Commission as it 
would under its context-based approach, would look to 
all the contextual factors and determine whether or not 
it was indecent in that situation.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  This Paris Hilton incident 
was scripted.  The use of the indecent word was almost 
invited, wasn't it?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Certainly our view is that 

it was pandering and invited.  It could have been 
expected.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Wasn't there a different 

word?  Wasn't there a euphemism in the script?  I 
thought there was a euphemism in the script.

 GENERAL GARRE:  The euphemism in the script 

I think was "freaking", and another euphemism for the 
S-Word, but they obviously departed from that.  And I 
think the Commission --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  But it was sort of an 

invitation.  I mean, before she was introduced, said, 
"Now we're on live television, you have to watch your 
mouth", or something like that. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

GENERAL GARRE:  That's what Paris Hilton 

said.  I mean, I think the whole thing was set up to be 
pandering --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  It was a setup.
 GENERAL GARRE:  -- to invite this kind of 
abuse, which is one of the contextual factors that the 
Commission looked at, along with the extremely shocking 
and graphic nature of using this language at 9:00 p.m. 
on an eastern night.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But you didn't fine them, 

anyway, did you?

 GENERAL GARRE:  We did not fine them because 

we exercised restraint in making -- in attempting to 
make clear that the FCC going forward was going to 
consider isolated --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Because you had gone from 
Pacifica until 2004 with a different policy, where this 
kind of thing would have been okay?

 GENERAL GARRE:  We had gone from Pacifica 

until 1987, approximately, in the Action for Children's 
Television case, where the Commission determined that 
that approach limited only to the seven dirty words in 
Pacifica was unduly narrow and inconsistent with its 
enforcement responsibilities.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Remind me about that, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

because there was -- the statement that the networks 
don't do this at all at the time of Action for 
Children's Television, the fight was, was it going to be 
from midnight 'til whatever it was.  The networks wanted 
more hours for adult viewing.  They said the only hours 
that the Commission gave them were hours when most 
everybody is asleep.

 GENERAL GARRE:  But I don't -- my 

understanding was that was not pertaining to use of the 
F-Word.  The networks' policies are at 86 to 88a, the 
petition appendix, and described there.  The D.C. 
Circuit found with respect to that change in position 
that the Commission had supplied an adequate explanation 
under the APA simply by saying that its prior practice, 
enforcement practice, was unduly narrow and not 
consistent with its enforcement responsibility.

 We think that the even more detailed 

explanation here clearly satisfies the APA standard that 
applied to the Commission's change in position.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Maybe I shouldn't ask 

this, but is there ever appropriate for the Commission 
to take into consideration at all the question whether 
the particular remark was really hilarious, very, very 
funny?  Some of these things --

(Laughter.) 

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- you can't help but 

laugh at.  Is that -- is that a proper consideration, do 
you think?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Yes, insofar as the 

Commission takes into account whether it's shocking, 
titillating, pandering --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Oh, it's funny.  I mean, 

bawdy jokes are okay if they are really good.

 (Laughter.)
 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, my point is that we 

will take it into account, but I think you can recognize 
the potentially greater harmful impact on children where 
you have celebrities using particularly graphic, vulgar, 
explicit, indecent language as part of the comedic 
routine during a show that children are comprising a 
substantial part of the viewing audience.

 And that is one of the factors that is 

appropriate under this Court's decision in Pacifica and 
the Commission's policy to take into account the time of 
day and the viewing audience.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Could you review me to one 
thing in the record if it's there, or just tell me.  I 
did find an explanation for the agency deciding that 
"fleeting" is not going to be an automatic exemption. 
They've talked about that. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

What I didn't find is an explanation for a 
second thing, which had to do with their first prong of 
their former test, and that was the distinction that 
used to be made between using these words as swear words 
and using them as descriptive words.  Now that, I think, 
showed up in their former policy because they said if 
they were used as a swear word we are not going to go 
after them, at least not immediately.  So that had to do 
with prong 1, not prong 2.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  So is there an explanation 

why they made that change?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, prong 1 hasn't 

changed, Justice Breyer, since the time --

JUSTICE BREYER:  It hasn't?
 GENERAL GARRE:  -- of Pacifica.  It has not. 

It's the same explanation, whether descriptions or 
depictions of sexual or excretorial organs or 
activities, the same definition before the Court in 
Pacifica.

 And as the Pacifica monologue makes clear, 

there were many both literal and non-literal uses of the 
F-Word and S-Word and other words in that monologue. 
So, I think the Commission's position is this kind of 
language has always been indecent, which is -- what has 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

changed is it's now going to consider enforcement action 
when is it's used in an isolated basis on a context-
based approach.

 If I can reserve --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  May I just ask one 

question?  It's about the bottom line of your brief. 
This whole argument has an air of really futility, 
because the Second Circuit more than tipped its hand 
when it said:  And even as they gave a reasoned 
explanation, we have grave doubts whether this would be 
constitutional.

 You suggested in your brief a remand for 
briefing and a hearing in the Second Circuit on the 
constitutional issue.  So, is there a way that we can 
say, well, really, this issue that's before us now is 
ignoring the big elephant in the rule, room; we have to 
get to that anyway?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, that approach would be 

consistent with this Court not deciding issues that 
haven't been decided below and the general practice of 
constitutional avoidance.  Now, the Second Circuit at 
three different places in its decision, on page 2a and 
page 35a, and at the end of its decision, made clear 
that it was not deciding the constitutional issues. 
Judge Laval who dissented didn't say anything about the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

constitutional issues.  So we certainly want another 
crack at those issues before the Second Circuit, and 
Respondents after all are not simply asking this Court 
to hold the regulation of isolated expletives is 
unconstitutional, but that any broadcast indecency 
regulation is unconstitutional; and at a minimum before 
this Court entertains that kind of radical 
constitutional shift, it ought to have the benefit of a 
court of appeals decision which actually decides those 
issues.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Could that be -- could 

that be done without deciding this APA or are we forced 
to decide that?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, we think the Court is 
forced to decide that because that's the basis that the 
court of appeals has invalidated the Commission's 
action.  The Court should reject that decision which is 
incorrect under the APA and send it back for 
consideration of the networks' other arguments.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, General 

Garre.

 Mr. Phillips.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and may it please the Court:

 I think I would like to start with 

Justice Scalia's narrowest question in terms of the 
easiest way to resolve this case, which is did the FCC 
in its remand order in fact recognize that it had made a 
change in policy and therefore dealt forthrightly with 
the fact that it had made a change in policy.  While it 
is true that the Second Circuit was prepared to accept 
the idea that the Commission had changed, the reality is 
you will read that opinion without any ability to 
discern that.  And the need --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes, but doesn't -- doesn't 

the ability to discern it come from the reasons given 
for not assessing fines?  They said:  We are not 
assessing fines.  This is something new, and this is in 
effect a warning to everybody that things have changed. 
Isn't that a pretty clear indication that they are 
adopting a new policy?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  It -- well, that they are in 

fact adopting a new policy, I think that is probably 
right, Justice Souter.  I think the problem here is that 
ordinarily when you are in fact forthrightly changing 
your policy it is incumbent upon the agency to say:  We 
are changing our policy, we recognize we are changing 
our policy, and here is the explanation for why we are 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

changing our policy.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Are they -- are they 

supposed to be more virtuous than courts?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes.  Yes.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, courts all the 
time, you know, distinguish prior cases by saying, 
"well, you know, it was dictum, or we didn't really hold 
that and whatnot. " And I read their opinion as somewhat 
the same -- somewhat the same thing.  They acknowledge 
at the end, and that's why they didn't impose a fine, 
that although this, you know, nothing that they had done 
up till now -- although their staff had -- would have 
misled anybody; still and all, it wasn't all that clear, 
and therefore we won't impose a fine.  It seems to me --

MR. PHILLIPS:  The only thing that's 

strikingly different about that, Justice Scalia, is they 
are very express in dealing with issue in the Golden 
Globes order, which --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  It --
MR. PHILLIPS:  -- General Garre specifically 
identifies.  It's interesting, when you say where is it 
in the order under review when they say they are going 
to do that, he says look in paragraph 12 of the Golden 
Globes order.  And Justice Ginsburg is absolutely right: 
this case came to the Second Circuit; the Commission 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

said No, send it back; give us a full opportunity to 
explain exactly what we are doing.  Thy take it back and 
they come in and they don't deal with this issue.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well -- it was also, they 

said, you know, we sort of made this change without 
getting comments from the affected parties.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  That was part of it.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Give us a chance to receive 

comments and then -- and then explain.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  And then provide a final 

reviewable order from the Commission, presumably that 
defends in all respects that decision.  But as I say --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What the Commission 

said is that the prior decisions or guidance was 
seriously flawed and we reaffirmed that it was 
appropriate to disavow it.

 It seems to me that is recognizing a change 

and rejecting it.  It's at page 82a.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  All -- all I am 

suggesting, Mr. Chief Justice, is that there is equally 
an opposite language in which the Commission -- and the 
Second Circuit acknowledged this, too -- in which the 
Commission seems to back off whether or not it thinks it 
has made a change in this particular order.  And it 
seems unreliable --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That seems to me to 
be the same question that I asked your friend:  does it 
matter?  Don't we look at the Commission's order and 
determine whether it's a reasonable explanation, whether 
they view it as a change or not?  It seems to me that 
they kind of said you can view it as a change because 
the staff had these decisions, and there was dicta; or 
it's not a change.  But the point -- important point is 
whether or not they provided a reasonable explanation 
for their current position.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  This Court said in State Farm 
that when an agency changes its position it is incumbent 
upon the agency to provide more of an explanation in 
that context than -- than if it were adopting the 
position in the first instance.  So I think yes, if 
there is --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What it says in 
State Farm -- what it says in State Farm is that an 
agency's view of what is in the public interest may 
change either with or without a change in circumstances.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The reason there is 

a change is they looked at it and they decided it was 
wrong.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes.  Well, I -- I think it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

-- we wouldn't be having this debate if the Commission 
had simply dealt with this issue in the same forthright 
fashion that it did with respect to the Golden Globes 
order.  But even if the Court accepts the idea that 
there is a change, it seems to me quite clear that the 
Commission has not even remotely satisfied its -- its 
obligation to demonstrate that that change is not 
arbitrary and capricious.  And I think --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You agree it's 

enough of a justification for the change that they think 
the other policy was wrong?  They don't have to say 
circumstances have changed, the facts are different; 
it's enough to say, "well, whatever the Commission used 
to thing, we think differently"?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  And then explain why.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And then explain 

why.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  And that goes into what I 

think is the next point that I would like to make which 
is the answer to the Justice Breyer's question, which is 
where in the opinion does the Commission explain the 
change in position with respect to the -- to the first 
prong of the indecency standard, which is whether or not 
these words inherently mean either sexual or excretory 
activities; and there, it seems to me, there is a --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

whether there is a change or not, the reality is that 
from 1978 until 2004 this kind of language was used 
routinely, without the Commission remotely suggesting 
that every time it was used, it necessarily had a 
particular meaning.  And then suddenly in 2004, this 
language has changed its tone completely, and there is 
no explanation for what is different or what is the 
reason for adopting that particular view.  The fact is 
that the reading of that is so fundamentally at odds 
with the way the Court --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  They said that.  They gave 

the reason for their current belief.  They said even 
when it is used just as a swear word or as an expletive, 
the reason it has its impact is precisely because it 
refers to these excretory or sexual activities; that's 
what -- that's what gives -- gives it its zing.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  This Court expressly said in 

Cohen v California, in talking about exactly the same 
word, that it cannot plausibly be maintained that this 
vulgar allusion would conjure up such -- up such psychic 
stimulation.  And if the Court would say that in 1970, 
it applies with even more force in 2008.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But that's not the 
Commission's position.  The Commission's position here 
is not when these words were used, people necessarily 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

thought of a literal meaning; instead, its position is 
that the reason these words shocked is because of its 
association with the literal meaning.  That's a 
different question than what was being addressed in 
Cohen.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, all that Cohen says is 
that you cannot immediately jump -- you -- it wouldn't 
even remotely strike you that the reason the language is 
being used is for its particular sexual meaning.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Then why -- why do 
you think the F-Word has shocking value or emphasis or 
force?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  The same reason the S-Word 
does; it's because in some circles it is inappropriate.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Because it is 

associated with sexual or excretory activity.  That's 
what gives it its -- its force.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I mean, I -- to say that, I 
suppose you can say it, but I don't understand on what 
basis.  There is no empirical support for that.  There's 
no --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of course there is.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  -- anything in the record 

that remotely suggests that.


 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Don't use golly waddles in


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

-- instead of the F-Word.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PHILLIPS:  People use all kinds of 
euphemisms for it, and nobody blinks about it.  The 
point is -- is that for 20-some years the Commission 
didn't draw that inference, didn't reach that conclusion 
and nothing has changed over those 20-some years.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, one thing has 

changed.  One thing has changed, I think, from the 
record.  And let me ask you whether if the Commission 
had given this explanation it would in your judgment 
satisfy the arbitrary and capricious standard?

 What if the Commission said, you know, our 

touchstone under prong 1 is community broadcast 
standards.  And we have assumed over the years that 
people really didn't get too exercised by the usage we 
have permitted.  But we are now getting all this mail 
from people who are very angry about it, and they find 
it extremely offensive.  And therefore, I guess our 
prior community broadcast standards were wrong.  We 
weren't taking into consideration the way people 
actually felt.  Now we know how they felt, because of 
the mail we are getting and we are changing our policy 
for that reason.

 Leaving aside the Constitutional sufficiency 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of that, in the matter of arbitrary and capricious 
standards, would it satisfy it?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I think it probably would, if 

all you are doing is looking at just the sort of raw 
Administrative Procedure Act standard, as it would 
normally apply to non-content.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, the raw APA standard 

issue is what we've got here.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I -- I don't think 

that's a fair way to -- to look at this case.  Because I 
don't see how you can -- it seems to me a completely 
artificial inquiry to look at this as you're regulating 
the price of oil going through a pipeline.  At the end 
of the day you are regulating the content of speech, and 
therefore the First Amendment ought to inform 
everybody's assessment of what can the Commission do as 
it moves --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  If that's --
MR. PHILLIPS:  In a more content-restrictive 

way.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  If that's the case, then 

the concept of constitutional avoidance is -- is somehow 
out of this case and similar First Amendment cases, 
because we are always going to -- and I -- when you say 
you really cannot separate that precisely, we were 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

always going to be getting into the constitutional 
issue, either expressly because we accept your view or 
covertly because we said, boy, we know what's around the 
corner.  And so, if --

MR. PHILLIPS:  But that would only be --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  -- if we accept your 

argument, we have to change the constitutional avoidance 
doctrine.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  No, I don't think that's 

exactly right, Justice Souter, because the 
constitutional avoidance doctrine is not going to be 
much of a problem obviously unless there is a grave 
constitutional threat.  So, it's not every assertion of 
the existence of a constitutional issue that suddenly 
triggers withdrawal.

 When you are dealing in this area, which is 

content regulation and restriction on the basis of 
content, it seems to me that's inherently a First 
Amendment problem.  And when you are in that world, then 
it seems to me the agency, even in the APA context, has 
more of a responsibility, or at least the Court should 
say it has more of a responsibility to explain.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And I thought we've held 
that the Court can't engage in such expansion of and 
additions to the Administrative Procedure Act.  I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

thought that was --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, the Administrative 

Procedure Act expressly says --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- one of our landmark 

decisions that what it says, it says, and we cannot add 
additional procedures.  You are suggesting we add an 
additional procedure that when it deals with speech, the 
explanation has to be really good.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, the --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Not just --
MR. PHILLIPS:  The Administrative Procedure 
Act also says "not in accordance with law," which also 
refers to other statutes and obviously the Constitution. 
So, it's not as though I am asking you to add more to 
what the -- to the statute.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You are asking for a higher 

standard than the APA --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes, I am asking for a higher 

standard under the APA because we are talking about 
content-based restrictions on free speech.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How is that 

consistent with Vermont Yankee?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Because it was not talking 

about restrictions on speech, Mr. Chief Justice.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, you are saying 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that we add to the APA when we are dealing with a 
particular area.  Which of our cases --
MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Which of our cases 

supports that?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  This Court hasn't had to hold 
that in any particular context, but the reality is, as a 
logical matter, if you are thinking about -- you know, 
there is an -- a restriction on "in accordance with 
law."  The First Amendment is obviously with law, so you 
have that limitation.  And then you have --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, maybe sometime 

--

issues --

MR. PHILLIPS:  And in order to avoid those 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- to be in a 

position to argue your constitutional issue, but we 
can't assume that you are right on the Constitution in 
applying the APA.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  All I'm saying is that it 

seems to me a remarkably artificial inquiry, to look at 
this as if you are regulating the price of oil going 
through, to a pipeline as opposed to what you are 
talking about --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You should have complained 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to the lower court about that.  You should have said, 
please don't decide this on the APA issue.  This is a 
First Amendment case.  You should reach the 
constitutional issue.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  But --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  But you went on the APA 

issue, and then you come up here and say:  I don't want 
to -- I don't want to discuss the APA; I want to 
discuss, you know, the First Amendment.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, Justice Scalia, I am 

perfectly content to talk about the APA, because at the 
end of the day, the APA --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  The APA simpliciter; not 

the APA, you know --

MR. PHILLIPS:  I like the more complicated 

version, but I am happy to deal with the simpliciter one 
as well.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PHILLIPS:  But the reality that goes 

back to Justice Breyer's question, at the end of the day 
the important part of this is what explains this 
fundamental shift.

 Now, I think Justice Souter, you know, has 

probably made a respectable argument on APA grounds.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Thank you.  Thank you. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

(Laughter.)
 MR. PHILLIPS:  But unfortunately that's not 

the position that the FCC took.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  He does good stuff now and 

then.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PHILLIPS:  I have nothing but the 

highest regard for him.

 But the other -- the other part of this case 
that seems to have gotten lost track of is that this is 
not a statute that -- that the Commission has the 
responsibility to enforce.  This is a criminal statute. 
This is section 1464.  And through section 503, the 
Commission doesn't have broad-based discretion to define 
for itself these terms.  The Commission has to decide 
what is indecent within the meaning of a Federal 
criminal statute, which means we are entitled to the 
rule of lenity, which means we are entitled to an 
interpretation of that first prong which, in dealing 
with indecency, says that it has to describe or depict 
sexual activity.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, when you talk 
about the rule of lenity, I mean, the point is that this 
change -- if there is a change in policy or whether it's 
adequately explained -- simply gets you in the door. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

They say then, once you are there, we just look at all 
of the circumstances and the context.  So, we don't --
it seems to me in their enforcement decisions, their 
decision not to impose sanctions, their decision not to 
have this count against you in future proceedings, they 
are being very lenient.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, they are being lenient 

in one sense.  I think you have to step back, 
Mr. Chief Justice, and recognize what the -- what we've 
got here.  We are talking about an extraordinary in 
terrorem regime that the FCC has created.  And I would 
commend to you all the amicus briefs from the NAB, from 
the former FCC officials, and from others who describe 
in exquisite detail the chilling effect that this 
particular scheme may have.

 To be sure, you know, Fox isn't being 
immediately penalized by this, but to go back to 
Justice Breyer's question of General Garre, what he said 
-- you know, does everybody have everything on tape and 
delaying?  No, of course not.  And why not?  Because it 
may be one thing for Fox to be able to put a show like 
this on a delayed basis, but if you are dealing with a 
local television station that is just getting by 
hand-to-mouth, and they want to televise a football 
game, and in the middle of that football game some 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

student decides to express himself in ways that 
nobody anticipated --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And this is where 

the context comes in.  At least with impressionable 
children, that's dramatically different from saying here 
is an awards show, here is a celebrity, I want to listen 
to what they are going to say because I listen to their 
music, and he comes out with that, as opposed to a 
football.  They know that, you know, somebody says a bad 
word in the middle of the interview.  The context makes 
all the difference in the world.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I'm not sure that -- I 

mean, I don't remember the FCC being in a position to 
describe how children are able to perceive one set of 
uses of the word as opposed to another set of uses of 
the word.  But what I think this Court --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  They perceive that. 
They know.  I mean, it's one thing to use the word in, 
say, Saving Private Ryan, when your arm gets blown off. 
It's another thing to do it when you are standing up at 
an awards ceremony.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  You can't seriously believe 

that the average nine-year-old, first of all, who is 
probably more horrified by the arm being blown off to 
begin with, but putting that aside, you -- it cannot 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

possibly be that the child has more of a reaction to 
that word in that context than if a young high school 
football player is running down the field screaming a 
particular expletive.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Why -- the young 
football player is not a celebrity that they follow.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  The young high school player 

actually might be more of a celebrity in some 
communities than -- at least than where I live, and --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The point is whether 
they are or not is the contextual determination that the 
FCC can undertake.  All they are saying is that just 
because it's used once doesn't mean you are out of the 
-- out of the woods altogether.  Let's look at it, and 
if it turns out there's no -- I mean, this is the point 
they make, that in one context, it's completely 
gratuitous; in the other context, it's not.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  But the problem is, 

Mr. Chief Justice, once you open the door, then you end 
up with all of the vagueness and overbreadth problems 
that are inherent in this regime.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  These arguments apply not 
just to the isolated, once-upon-a-time use, but even to 
continued use.  You could say the same thing about just 
filling a program with these expletives, right? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. PHILLIPS:  Justice Scalia, you could say 

the same thing --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's not --
MR. PHILLIPS:  -- but we're not saying the 

same thing.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's not, I suppose, what 

you are arguing against here, is it?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  No, because the point we are 

making here is that we haven't asked this Court to 
revisit Pacifica.  And the point is that when you move 
away from Pacifica, which is the verbal shock treatment 
formulation, and say, you know, that's perfectly 
consistent with the First Amendment and with everything 
that agency decisionmaking requires, and say that's all 
right -- when you shift from that, which is an enormous 
switchover, and go into fleeting expletives, then it's a 
fundamental -- all we're saying is that's a 
fundamentally different issue and that implicates more 
serious First Amendment issues, because everybody knows 
what is something that is verbal shock treatment or at 
least we know how to stay pretty far away from it; 
whereas, if I say every fleeting expletive potentially 
exposes every broadcaster to $325,000 fines made solely 
at the discretion of five individuals, unelected, that 
impresses me, Your Honors, as simply an inappropriate 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

problem, and one that just follows naturally,

Mr. Chief Justice, from saying, well, all we are going

to do is open the door.  Because once you open the door,

it is clearly a Pandora's box we are talking about.


 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Then why do your 

clients not use these words between 10:00 p.m. and 
6:00 a.m.?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Because it affects audience 

share.  There are some people --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Why do you think it 

affects audience share?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Because some people are 

offended it; not the whole community.  There are 
probably a lot of people who would actually prefer to 
have more of it.  But some --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  If you can take that 

into consideration, why can't the FCC make the same 
determination, that there may be some people offended by 
this, and if there are some people, as part of our 
statutory responsibility, we are going to look at it. 
Not that they automatically impose --

MR. PHILLIPS:  But that's a heckler's veto.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Not that they 

automatically impose a sanction, but that they're going 
to look at it. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, first of all, that's a 

heckler's veto, and there have been long holdings in 
this Court that suggest simply pandering to one small 
segment of the population is no way to enforce First 
Amendment rights.  So that's -- I mean, that's my 
primary answer to that.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  There goes Pacifica.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  No, I don't think there goes 

Pacifica, because Pacifica was only one person --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Isn't that a --
MR. PHILLIPS:  I'm sorry.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Isn't that a heckler's 

veto?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  No.  What --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  What if people like, you 

know, going on and on with expletives and offensive 
words?  Are those of us who are offended by that 
hecklers and you can't take our positions into account 
because you're giving effect to a heckler?  I mean -- I 
don't think so.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  But the problem is that the 
Chief Justice's question was:  Why do we have a 24-hour 
rule.

 And the answer is:  It's one thing for us to 
voluntarily assume that.  I think it is a mistake, and I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

don't know that -- and I don't think -- I didn't read 
anything in the Commission's opinion that reflects it. 
But they say that fact suddenly defines the community 
standards for purposes of what is indecent and what is 
not indecent.  That simply reflects our own best 
judgment about how to serve our audience.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  If there is -- if there is 
a change in the community standards, does that justify a 
change in the FCC's policies?

 And the second question and the reason I ask 
that is:  Do you think today the community generally is 
more offended by these words or more tolerant of these 
words --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Well --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- as compared to what 

Pacifica was concerned with?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I mean I -- I believe that 
society is significantly more tolerant of these words 
today than it was in -- 30 years ago.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Do you think your clients 

have had anything to do with that?

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PHILLIPS:  In -- in the scheme of 
things, probably very, very little to do with that 
compared to the way the language is used.  Go to a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

baseball game, Justice Scalia.  You hear these words 
every -- every time you go to a ballgame.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You do, indeed, but you 
don't have them presented as something that is -- is 
normal in polite company, which is what happens when it 
comes out in -- in television shows.  This is a 
coarsening of manners that is -- that is produced by --
by the shows.  So I am -- you know, I -- I am not 
persuaded by the argument that people are more 
accustomed to hearing these words than they were in the 
past.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  But the -- I mean I think 

what Justice Stevens is getting at is:  What has changed 
over the last 30 years?  And if anything has changed, it 
would be exactly the opposite, which is they are going 
to be more and more tolerant of this language; not that 
they are less tolerant of this language.  And, 
therefore, there is even less reason for the Commission 
to have taken the position that it did in this 
particular context.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  More tolerant or more used 

to hearing it?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I think both.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Candidly, I think there is 

a difference. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I am not saying there 
is not a difference, but I am suggesting that there are 
-- that the -- that the change over time has -- has made 
this less of a compelling argument than it would have 
been, at least in my judgment, in -- in 1978.

 I would like to make a couple of different, 
additional points.  Another thing that has changed since 
1978 is that there is much more opportunity for parents 
to control access for their children because of the V-
clip.  That's available.

 Second, in terms of this effort to try to 

lessen the coarsening of America --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'm not sure that works. 

I haven't looked at the statistics on one-parent 
families, working parents, and so forth.  Those factors 
both have to be considered.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, but if you put in a 

V-chip, it doesn't matter whether your parents are 
working or not.  The truth is if you had had a V-chip 
for the 2003 version of this, which would have said PGL, 
which is for language, children couldn't have gotten on 
there whether the parents were at home or not.  The 
V-chip is a usable and feasible technology and is a less 
restrictive alternative than the one that we have on the 
-- on the table under these particular circumstances. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The -- I wanted to go back to the -- to the 

statute, the fact that this is a criminal statute. 
Again, the Commission is not arguing here for broad --
recognizing, or accepting, or arguing for, that they 
have a broad delegation of authority.  They don't have 
the authority to decide what indecency is.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  And you were -- you were 
pursuing the practical thing about the tapes, and so 
forth, when you got on to a different subject, which was 
the -- the nature of the program.  I just wanted to be 
certain you are finished with what you wanted to say 
there.  I -- because I am interested in the practical 
question of:  Do all the stations have tapes?  And leave 
sports events out of it, and leave news out of it.  Are 
there other events that these small stations might want 
to cover that don't have the tape or that now don't use 
the tape; anything else you want to say about that?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER:  I am interested in the 

practical problem as part of this.  Where do I look to 
find out some facts?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, the NAB amicus brief 
actually has a pretty good description of a variety of 
different instances in which this has -- has occurred. 
And, of course, the NAB represents obviously the large 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

networks but also all of the individual stations.  And 
that, to me at least, makes a compelling argument that 
you -- you cannot simply have one rule that says:  Let's 
just impose additional costs on everybody.  Because the 
answer to that is that those stations will simply refuse 
to broadcast.

 And to me the best illustration of it, and 
the one that the public interest, I would hope, would 
command or demand the Court take account of, is the 
Vermont public station that refused to broadcast a 
debate or -- or allow a number of Senatorial candidates 
to participate in a debate because that candidate had 
used expletives in a previous public forum, and, 
therefore, didn't think it could allow that broadcast 
and take that risk because it can't afford to have the 
tape-delayed technology that you are talking about.

 And -- and that to me is the quintessential 

example.  But there are loads of them, and it's just 
going to get worse once you decide to get past the 
notion that a fleeting expletive, no matter how it 
arises, requires to you justify it.

 Because we went from a system that said:  We 

will, in general, never condemn fleeting expletives to 
the system that exists now, which is we routinely 
condemn them unless we think its okay.  And that's a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

system, it seems to me, this Court ought not to 
countenance.  It is embedded in the Second Circuit's 
decision.

 The Court should affirm that decision and 

vacate back to the Commission so that it can go forward 
-- or to remand back to the Commission so it can do the 
best it can to try to come up with a justification that 
satisfies both the APA and the First Amendment that it 
has not done so far.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Phillips, this --
this is similar to the question that I asked General 
Garre.  The Commission asked for a remand so it could 
provide a reasoned explanation.  But you had or your 
clients had -- in their complaint they made an APA claim 
as well as a First Amendment claim, didn't they?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes, we did.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  I mean it wasn't a complaint. 

Actually, it was -- it was a petition for review --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Correct.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  -- going right to the Second 

Circuit.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  So it doesn't have the same 

bill of particulars that you might otherwise have. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You could have just done 
the First Amendment, but you -- you did put the APA into 
it.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes, Justice Ginsburg.  We --
we do believe that the Commission changed its position, 
and -- and, again, we had to file a separate petition 
for review from the remand order over and above the 
petition for review we filed from the first order.

 So, you know, we took into account this 
assessment in saying we don't think the agency had 
adequately justified its change in position.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask this question, 

Mr. Phillips?  I guess in the -- in the last analysis we 
are trying to decide what the word "indecent" means.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes, Justice Kennedy.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  And do you think that the 

word "indecent" can have -- that -- that a fleeting 
expletive could be not indecent, but the same words 
could be indecent if they are repeated several times?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I think it -- at least to me 
it's hard.  I don't think so, but I -- I can understand 
that Pacifica could be read that way, although in 
pacifica, itself, George Carlin does, in fact, use the 
fleeting expletive in an explicitly sexual way at -- at 
times. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

But I -- I think the hardest case, candidly, 
is the situation where you have a string of expletives, 
all of which are clearly not designed to reflect 
anything about sexual activity and what you do in that 
situation.  That is the hardest case.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Yes, but I -- I am not --

not sure I make my question as clear as I should.  If we 
are trying to define the term "indecent" --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- does the -- does the 

number of times the word is used in a particular context 
make a difference in the definition?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I apologize.  I didn't -- I 
misunderstood your question.  No, I don't think so.  I 
think the question -- the first prong of the indecency 
inquiry is whether or not the particular language used 
does, in fact, describe or depict sexual or excretory 
activities or organs.  And that's the No. 1 inquiry. 
And I don't think the number of times in which you use 
it affects the --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  As a matter of statutory 

definition, if a particular word can describe those 
activities, it is equally indecent if used for a 
different purpose?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I -- I would have thought 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that, since you were dealing with a statute that is --
that imposes criminal sanctions, that if you have those 
two alternative interpretions available, you have to 
choose the one that is more favorable to the defendant. 
And, therefore, you would -- you would say that the --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- would not be indecent. 

That is the interpretation --

MR. PHILLIPS:  I am sorry?
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- you should accept. 
Let's say because one interpretation of an ambiguous 
word would not be indecent, you are saying the rule of 
lenity in that sort of approach would require in a 
criminal case to just adopt that -- that definition?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  That would be my argument, 

yes, Justice Stevens.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But that -- I mean you are 
just -- correct me if I am wrong, but your colloquy with 
Justice Stevens sort of is a way of phrasing the issue 
in the case.  Because you are saying, I think, prior to 
this -- prior to the change, the Commission interpreted 
"indecency" in terms of indecent practice.  And what the 
Commission is now doing is defining "indecency" in terms 
of the meaning of a word.  It's -- it's relatively going 
from saying indecency is a practice, i.e., a repetition 
of certain kinds of words, to saying "indecency" is --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

is the use of any word which is itself indecent.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I -- I agree with that 

completely, Justice Souter.  No.  That is exactly how 
you can characterize it.  I mean it may not be the 
precise verbal formulation we used, but, candidly, that 
is it and essentially the way Judge Lebal looked at it. 
And he just said at the end of the day, because I have 
to defer to the agency, I am going to let them have that 
interpretation.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But that is not the 

appropriate approach.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Let me ask about deferring 
there.  You seem to be suggesting that since there is a 
criminal penalty for a violation of this statute, the 
agency has no role in -- in defining what -- what the 
terms of the statute mean.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Justice Scalia, the language 

of the statute itself would suggest that, because the 
statute says that the Commission may find violate -- may 
impose certain enforcement actions for people who 
violate section 1464.  That, of course, is a criminal 
statute.

 Therefore, it is not a statute that has been 

delegated to the agency's broad discretion to decide 
what falls within that language.  It is within the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

agency's discretion to choose a penalty that, in fact, 
enforces that criminal dictate.

 And to go back to Justice Stevens's 

position -- I shouldn't give it as your position, it is 
my position -- but the point, I think, we were 
discussing, if you have a choice of two ways to read 
indecency, you have to read it in a way more favorable 
to the defendant, that precludes the approach that the 
government has taken in this particular case.

 If there are no further questions, Your 

Honor, I would reserve.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Phillips.

 General Garre you have two minutes.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

 GENERAL GARRE:  Thank you, Mr. Chief 

Justice.

 First, Justice Scalia, it's on page 82-A of 
the petition appendix where the Commission acknowledges 
the change in the order at issue in this case.

 Justice Breyer, going back to your question 
about whether the Commission's definition of indecency 
has changed, it is not and that is made clear at page 
73-A of the petition appendix where the Commission says, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

quote, a long line of precedence indicates that the use 
of the F-Word for emphasis or as an intensifier comes 
within the subject matter scope of our indecency 
definition.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  It explained -- I mean, the 
change I saw was that previously the use of these words 
as a swear was treated differently from the use of these 
words as a description.  And that after the event, it's 
not treated differently.

 GENERAL GARRE:  It explains on page 74 why 

the Commission has determined that these words are 
indecent.  The Commission has only treated those literal 
uses of these words as potentially indecent under its 
contextual analysis.

 We think that Justice Ginsburg's decision 

for the D.C. Circuit in the Action for Children's 
Television case provides a road map for resolving this 
case, where the Court separately addressed the APA 
question of whether the agency had provided a reasonable 
explanation and then separated out the constitutional 
issues, which this Court need not address.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Could I ask one question 
that just occurred to me?  Do you think the use of the 
word dung, D-U-N-G, would be indecent?

 GENERAL GARRE:  I think it would probably 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

qualify under the subject matter definition, but it 
probably wouldn't be patently offensive under community 
standards for broadcasting.

 The one thing that can't be disputed -- in 

this case is that the F-Word is patently offensive under 
community standards for the broadcast medium.  This 
Court has reversed the decision below on the APA 
question presented and remand the case for consideration 
under --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You have the F-Word in 

there too, and even Judge Leval says he didn't 
understand why that word should be on the list.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, we certainly think 

that under community standards that that word is 
patently offensive as well.  And certainly, but we think 
that the F-Word itself is clearly patently offensive. 
We think that the S-Word is patently offensive.  This 
Court did so -- we think had that view in the Pacifica 
case as well, because that, of course, is one of the 
seven dirty words at issue in that case.

 If there are no further questions.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, General.
 The case is submitted.
 (Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

12:21 35:16 
42:21 56:4 

actual 10:16,20 
add 39:5,6,14 

40:1 

allusion 34:20 
alternative 
51:24 57:3 

14:4 16:16 
19:22 21:19 
24:11 59:20,25 

altogether 45:14  applied 24:19 
ambiguous 

applies 7:4 14:7 

articulating 7:6
artificial 37:12

40:21

aside 36:25

44:25

additional 17:25 

57:10 

60:21 

39:6,7 51:7 
53:4 

additions 38:25 
address 3:15 

Amendment 
15:9 16:11 
18:2 37:15,23 
38:19 40:10 
41:3,9 46:13 
46:19 48:5 
54:8,15 55:2 
adequate 24:13  America 51:12 
American 18:19 
adequately 
Americans 

addressed 35:4 

42:25 55:11 

60:18 

Administrative 

16:17 18:3,7 
3:24 8:16 16:3  amicus 43:12 
37:5 38:25 
39:2,11 

analysis 6:9 9:14 

52:22 

17:23 34:22 

apply 14:25 37:6 

45:22 

applying 6:9 
10:2 40:19 

asked 7:11 32:2 
46:9 54:11,12

asking 18:13

28:3 39:14,16
39:18

apposite 16:14 
approach 19:23  assertion 38:13
assessing 29:14

asleep 24:7

22:6 23:22 
27:3,18 57:12 
58:11 59:8 
appropriate 

29:15

assessment

37:16 55:10

3:20 5:1 14:18  associated 35:16
association 35:3
21:20 22:1 
assume 40:18
24:21 25:18 
31:16 58:11 

48:25

appropriateness  assumed 36:15

13:20 18:1 

approximately 

attempting

23:13

adopt 18:13,14 

57:13 

adopting 29:18 

29:20 32:14 
34:8 

adult 24:5 
affirm 54:4 
affirmed 16:8 
affirming 17:22 
afford 53:15 
age 11:4 
agencies 7:8 
agency 7:5,24 

8:9,12,15 15:2 
25:23 29:23 
32:12,13 38:20 
46:14 55:10 
58:8,15 60:19 

agency's 5:5 
11:13 32:19 
58:24 59:1 

ago 49:19 
agree 33:9 58:2 
ahead 16:5 
air 27:7 
AL 1:4,8 
allow 53:11,14 

55:13 60:14 
angry 36:18 
answer 16:6 

33:20 48:6,24 
53:5 

anticipated 44:2 
anybody 30:13 
anyway 23:11 

27:17 

23:20 

arbitrary 6:23 
7:21,25 8:2 
33:8 36:12 
37:1 

area 3:18 10:22 

16:10 38:16 
40:2 

APA 24:14,18 
28:12,18 37:7 
38:20 39:17,19  argue 40:17 
40:1,19 41:2,6  arguing 46:7 
41:8,11,12,13 
41:14,24 54:8 
54:14 55:2 
60:18 61:7 

52:3,4 

argument 1:14 

apologize 56:13 
apparent 12:14 
appeals 3:23 

4:17 5:9 28:9 
28:16 

appear 6:3 
APPEARAN... 

1:16 

appendix 4:9 

6:5 7:19 13:3 

2:2,7 3:4,8 
10:19 27:7 
28:23 38:7 
41:24 50:9 
51:4 53:2 
57:14 59:15 
arguments 9:4 
28:19 45:22 
arises 53:21 
arm 44:19,24 
arose 7:15
art 20:4,5

audience 3:17
11:1,3 13:24 
25:16,20 47:8 
47:11 49:6

authority 52:5,6
automatic 25:24
automatically

47:21,24

available 15:14

15:17 51:10
57:3

average 14:5

44:23

avoid 40:14
avoidance 27:21
37:22 38:7,11
awards 4:8,24

5:20 6:8,8
10:17 20:12
44:6,21

a.m 1:15 3:2 
47:7 61:24

B

A 

ability 29:10,13 
able 43:21 44:14 
above-entitled 

1:13 61:25 

absolutely 8:13 

14:16 30:24 

abuse 23:6 
accept 29:8 38:2 

38:6 57:9 

accepting 52:4 
accepts 33:4 
access 16:21 

51:9 

accessibility 

17:14 

accessible 16:19 
accomplishing 

15:15 

account 6:13 
25:5,11,19 
48:18 53:9 
55:9 

accustomed 

50:10 

acknowledge 
5:17 8:4 30:9 
acknowledged 

4:7 19:21 
31:22 

acknowledges 
11:20 59:20 
Act 3:24 8:16 

16:3 37:5 
38:25 39:3,12 
action 3:19,24 
4:20 5:2,22 
9:23 11:19 
21:20 23:20 
24:2 27:1 
28:17 60:16 
actions 9:12 

58:20 

activities 26:19 

33:25 34:15 
56:18,23 

activity 11:23 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

56:1 58:5 

capricious 6:24 
7:25 8:2 33:8 
36:12 37:1 

capriciousness 

7:21 

Carlin 55:23 
carry 3:14 
CARTER 1:20 

2:5 28:23 

case 3:4,12,20 

23:20 24:3 
60:16 

25:12,15 44:5 
6:22,24 7:9,24 
8:4,6,8,13 9:11 
44:14 51:9,21 
24:12,19 26:12  Children's 9:23 
29:6,7 31:5,17 
31:24 32:5,6,8 
32:20,20,23 
33:5,7,10,22 
34:1 38:7 
42:24,24 49:8 
49:9 51:3 
55:11 57:20 
59:21 60:6 

chilling 43:14 
choice 8:14 59:6 
choose 57:4 59:1 
circles 35:14 
Circuit 6:23 

7:11,15 24:12 
27:8,13,21 
28:2 29:8 
30:25 31:22 
5:15 7:12 
26:14 27:1 
54:22 60:16 
29:9,16 33:12  Circuit's 9:22 
34:6 36:7,9,9 
50:13,14 51:7 
55:5 59:24 
changes 7:5 

changed 5:6,7,8 

54:2 

circumstances 
32:20 33:12 
43:2 51:25 
citizens 14:10 
claim 54:14,15 
clear 4:22 6:6 
8:13 23:14 
26:21 27:23 
29:17 30:13 
33:5 56:7 
59:24 

4:23 6:11 7:12 
7:15 8:20 9:12 
9:21,24 10:5,5 
10:8 11:2,19 
14:23,23 15:24 
16:12 17:20 
20:13 23:21 
29:4 30:25 
37:10,21,23 
41:3 42:9 56:1 
changing 4:5 
56:5 57:13,19 
59:9,21 60:17 
29:22,24,24 
60:18 61:5,8 
30:1 36:23 
61:19,20,23,24  characterize 

32:12 

cases 4:11 9:10 

58:4 

15:20 16:8,9,9  Cher 10:15 12:7 
30:6 37:23 
40:2,4 

back 28:18 31:1  breaking 19:22 

31:2,23 41:20 
43:8,17 52:1 
54:5,6 59:3,22 

bad 44:9 
ballgame 50:2 
baseball 19:15 

50:1 

based 19:19 

20:1 

Breyer 16:4 

18:20 19:4,10 
19:13,25 20:9 
21:10,17 25:21 
26:11,14,15 
52:7,19 59:22 
60:5 

27:3 

Breyer's 33:20 
basically 4:3 
41:20 43:18 
basis 13:7 18:10  brief 27:6,12 

18:10,16 21:19 
27:2 28:15 
35:20 38:17 
43:22 

bawdy 25:8 
beginning 4:23 
behalf 1:18,20 

2:4,6,9 3:9 
28:24 59:16 

behold 19:6 
belief 34:12 
believe 13:2 
20:23 44:22 
49:17 55:5 
benefit 28:8 
best 49:5 53:7 

54:7 

big 18:17 27:16 
bill 54:25 
Billboard 6:7,8 

20:11 

Bird 18:17 
bit 14:3 
bleep 19:12 

20:15 

bleeped 20:22 
bleeping 21:2 
blinks 36:4 
blown 44:19,24 
blues 9:9 
bombarded 

18:9 

bottom 27:6 
box 47:4 
boy 38:3 

52:22 

briefing 27:13 
briefs 43:12 
bring 5:2 
broad 52:3,5 

58:24 

broadcast 3:16 

10:25 11:2 
13:20 14:3 
15:8,12 16:18 
16:19,22,22 
17:21 18:3,6 
28:5 36:14,20 
53:6,10,14 
61:6 

broadcaster 
4:21 46:23 
broadcasters 

14:9,13 

broadcasting 

14:20,22 16:10 
17:14,15 61:3 

broad-based 

42:14 

brought 4:20 

C
C 2:1 3:1 
cable 17:25 18:4 
California 34:18
call 21:3
candidate 53:12
candidates

53:11

candidly 50:24

categorical 6:3 
celebrities 25:13 
celebrity 44:6 

45:6,8 

ceremony 44:21 
certain 52:11 
57:25 58:20 
certainly 6:20 

9:16 11:18 
12:5 14:11 
21:8 22:12 
28:1 61:13,15 
challenge 3:12 

9:25 

challenged 9:10 
chance 31:8 
change 3:22 4:6 

4:19,25 6:18 

clip 51:10 

49:20 54:14 

clearly 24:18 

47:4 56:3 
61:16 

Chief 3:3,11 
6:16 7:3,20 
10:4,14 13:5 
14:12 15:10 
28:20,25 31:13  clients 47:6 
31:20 32:1,17 
32:22 33:9,16 
34:23 35:10,15  coarsening 50:7 
39:21,24,25 
40:4,12,16 
42:22 43:9 
44:3,17 45:5 
45:10,19 47:2 
47:5,10,16,23 
48:22 58:10 
59:12,17 61:22  comedic 25:14 

collective 14:7 
colloquy 57:17 
come 29:13 31:3 

Cohen 34:18 

41:7 54:7 

35:5,6

51:12 

child 45:1 
children 3:17 
10:25 11:3 
16:18,19 17:14  command 53:9 

comes 44:4,8
50:6 60:2 
coming 9:18 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

commend 43:12 
comments 31:6 

31:9 

61:6,14 

company 50:5 
compared 49:15 

Commission 1:4 

49:25 

compelling 51:4 

3:5,13,19,21 
4:7,10,16,19 
4:20,22 6:11

6:25 7:10,11 
7:13,13,16 8:3

8:5,19,24 10:2 
10:10,21 13:6

13:10 14:6 
15:2,15 16:2

16:12 19:20 
22:5,21 23:7

23:21 24:6,13 
24:21 25:5 
29:9 30:25 
31:11,13,21,23

33:1,6,13,21 
34:3 36:5,10 
36:13 37:16 
42:11,14,15

50:18 52:3 
54:5,6,12 55:5

57:20,22 58:19 
59:20,25 60:11

60:12 

complained 

53:2 

40:25 

54:18 

complaint 54:14 

completely 34:6 

37:11 45:16 
58:3 

complicated 

41:15 

complied 7:23 
comprised 11:3 
comprising 

25:15 

concede 11:24 
concededly 11:4 
concept 37:22 
concerned 49:16 
concluded 16:14 
conclusion 8:2 

36:6 

concrete 8:5 
condemn 53:23 

Commission's 

53:25 

8:7,23 9:6,11  Congress 18:6 
conjure 34:20 
10:1 12:17 
conjures 12:22 
15:18 21:25 
connotation 
24:19 25:19 
26:24 28:16 
32:3 34:24,24 
49:2 59:23 

consider 9:12 
23:15 27:1 

12:4 

committed 8:15 
Communicati... 

1:3 3:5,13 
communities 

45:9 

community 

consideration 

6:13 24:22 
25:2 28:19 
36:21 47:17 
61:8 

14:10 24:16 
27:19 39:22 
46:13 

Constitution 
39:13 40:18 
constitutional 

cost 21:14 
costs 53:4 
count 43:5 
countenance 

54:2 

couple 51:6 

13:22 

content 37:14 

content-based 

contemporary 

38:17,18 41:11 

15:11,23 27:11  course 3:23 5:1 
27:14,21,24 
9:2 15:7 35:22

28:1,8 36:25 
43:20 52:25 
37:22 38:1,7 
58:21 61:19

court 1:1,14 
38:11,13,14 
40:17 41:4 
3:11,23 4:17

60:20 
4:25 5:9,11,12 
6:21 7:7,23 8:8

9:17 10:20 
14:24 15:22 
16:8 17:5,12 
17:20,23 26:19

27:19 28:3,7,9 
28:14,16,17 
29:1 32:11 
33:4 34:10,17

34:21 38:21,24 
40:6 41:1

44:16 46:9 
48:3 53:9 54:1

54:4 60:18,21 
61:7,18 

11:5,10,12 
13:23 22:3 
27:2 32:14 
38:20 40:7 
43:2 44:4,10 
45:2,16,17 
50:20 56:11 
contextual 6:9 

courts 14:8 30:3 

context 5:3 9:15 

content-restri... 

39:20 

37:19 

30:5 

6:14 9:13 22:7  Court's 9:22,24 
23:6 45:11 
60:14 

13:10 15:20 
16:7 25:18 
cover 18:23 

context-based 

continuation 

22:6 

6:18 

continued 45:24 
contravenes 

13:19 

control 11:25 

19:15,15 20:2 
20:3 52:16 

coverage 19:23 

20:1 

covertly 38:3 
crack 28:2 
created 43:11 
criminal 42:12


42:17 52:2 
57:2,13 58:14

58:21 59:2 
criteria 7:23

criticisms 14:24 

critics 12:8 
cross-section 

19:1,2 

curious 18:21 
current 32:10 

34:12


D

D 3:1 
day 3:16 15:6 
18:16 25:20
37:14 41:12,20
58:7 

deal 18:25 31:3 

41:16 

dealing 21:6,21 

30:17 38:16
40:1 42:19
43:22 57:1 

deals 39:7 
dealt 29:6 33:2 
debate 33:1 
53:11,12 

decide 28:13,15 

41:2 42:15
52:6 53:19
55:14 58:24 
decided 16:1 
27:20 32:23 
decides 28:9 

44:1 

deciding 25:23 

27:19,24 28:12 

decision 5:10 
9:22,23,24
13:10 17:10,11
17:12 21:18
25:18 27:22,23
28:9,17 31:12 
43:4,4 54:3,4 
60:15 61:7

decisionmaking

46:14 

decisions 5:21 

8:19 31:14
32:7 39:5 43:3 
defendant 57:4

considerations 

51:9 

16:13 

13:19,23 14:2

14:2,5,10,15 
14:18,20,21,25

36:14,20 47:13  consisted 11:7 
consistent 8:7 
49:3,8,11 61:2


considered 8:22 

51:16 

core 12:19,22 
corner 38:4 
correct 54:20 

57:17 

correctly 4:18 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

defending 6:21 

59:8 

7:2,2 

defends 31:12 
defer 58:8 
deferring 58:12  detailed 24:17 
define 42:14 
determination 

56:3 

discretion 42:14 

46:24 58:24 
59:1 

desirable 7:8 
detail 43:14 

descriptive 26:5  discern 29:11,13  either 7:2,20 
designed 18:6 
18:9 32:20 
33:24 38:2 
element 11:6 
elephant 27:16 
embedded 54:2 
discussing 59:6  Emmys 18:25 
disputed 61:4 
dissented 27:25 
determinations  distinction 12:9 

9:3 14:13 
45:11 47:18 

discuss 6:6 41:8 

emphasis 35:11 

19:17 

41:9 

60:2 

15:3 

26:3 

empirical 35:20 

56:8 

defines 49:3 
defining 57:22 

58:15 

definition 10:1,2  determine 14:10  distinguish 10:8  enforce 42:12 

events 18:23,24 

52:14,15 

even-handedly 

3:15 

everybody 
12:14 24:7 
29:16 43:19 
46:19 53:4 
everybody's 

37:16 

exactly 31:2 
34:18 38:10 
50:15 58:3 
example 9:9 
11:6 14:23 
15:5 18:16,18 
19:20 20:22 
53:18 

exclusively 6:12 
excretorial 

26:18 

excretory 33:24 

34:15 35:16 
56:17 

exemption 

25:24 

exercised 10:22 

23:13 36:16 
exhibits 10:16 
existence 38:14 
exists 53:24 
expansion 38:24 
expect 16:24 
expectation 

18:11 

expected 18:9 

48:4 

enforcement 

3:19 4:20 5:2 
5:22 9:12 
21:19 23:24 
24:15,16 27:1 
43:3 58:20 
enforces 59:2 
engage 38:24 
English 11:22 

12:21 

enormous 46:15 
ensure 21:24 
entertainment 
16:18 17:22 
19:10 

entertains 28:7 
entirely 13:6 
entitled 42:17 

42:18 

episode 18:19 
equally 9:5 

12:11,12,15 
31:20 56:23 

erred 3:23 
ESQ 1:17,20 2:3  experience 14:7 

22:14 

2:5,8 

essentially 58:6 
ET 1:4,8 
euphemism 

22:16,17,18,19 

euphemisms 

event 19:5 22:4 

36:4 

60:8 

19:1 

expert 15:2 
explain 7:13,17
15:21 21:10,15
31:2,9 33:15 
33:16,21 38:22 

explained 6:1 
21:16 42:25 
60:5 

22:7 32:4 

11:14 12:18 
26:19 56:12,22  determined 3:19  doctrine 16:14 
57:13 59:23 
60:4 61:1 

documentary 

38:8,11 

30:6 

6:11 10:11 
11:11 13:23 
23:21 60:11 

9:9 

determining 5:1  doing 31:2 37:4 

delay 19:11 20:6 

20:10,12,16 
21:13,24 

7:24 15:3 

43:22 

delayed 19:17 

dialogue 11:7 
dicta 32:7 
delaying 43:20 
dictate 59:2 
delegated 58:24  dictum 30:7 
delegation 52:5 
delve 15:23 
demand 53:9 
demonstrate 

15:1 44:11 
50:25 51:2 
56:12 

difference 6:17 

33:7 

Denver 16:9 
depart 4:10 
departed 22:20 
departing 5:23 

Department 

7:1 

1:18 

depends 21:5 
depict 42:20 

56:17 

depictions 26:18 
describe 42:20 
43:13 44:14 
56:17,22 

described 24:11 
description 
52:23 60:8 
descriptions 

26:17 

different 5:17 
7:4 10:13,23 
14:23 16:10 
19:23 22:3,15 
23:17 27:22 
30:16 33:12 
34:7 35:4 44:5 
46:18 51:6 
52:9,24 56:24 

differently 

10:12 33:14 
60:7,9 

difficult 10:5 
dinner 18:8 
directly 3:16 4:7 

8:4 

dirty 23:22 

61:20 

disavow 31:16 
disavowed 5:20 

57:22 

door 42:25 

45:19 47:3,3 
doubts 27:10 
dramatically 

44:5 

draw 36:6 
drawing 15:3 
driving 20:3 
dropping 11:9 

18:17 

dung 60:24 
dwelled 6:11 
D-U-N-G 60:24 
D.C 1:10,18,20 

9:22 24:11 
60:16 
E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
Early 10:5,8
easiest 29:4
eastern 23:9
effect 4:15,16
29:16 43:14
48:19

effort 12:10

51:11

efforts 3:13

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

explaining 8:12 
explains 41:21 

60:10 

explanation 

3:22 8:5,6 16:2 
24:13,18 25:23 
26:1,11,17 
27:10 29:25 
32:4,9,13 34:7 
36:11 39:8 
54:13 60:20 
expletive 4:22 
5:3 10:6 22:4 
34:13 45:4 
46:22 53:20 
55:18,24 

expletives 4:4 

55:23 56:17 
59:1 

factors 6:14 8:1 
8:9 22:7 23:6 
25:17 51:15 

facts 33:12 

52:21 

fair 37:10 
falls 58:25 
families 51:15 
far 46:21 54:9 
Farm 32:11,18 

32:18 

fashion 33:3 
fast 20:20 
favorable 57:4 

59:7 

5:22 6:10 8:21  FCC 5:13,18 
11:10 13:24 
9:13 12:9,10 
18:15 20:15 
21:10 23:14 
29:4 42:3 
21:25 28:4 
43:11,13 44:13 
45:25 46:16 
48:16 53:13,23 
45:12 47:17 
56:2 

FCC's 11:16,18 

explicit 6:14 

9:14 11:11,22 
12:20 25:14 

explicitly 55:24 
exposes 46:23 
express 30:17 

44:1 

expressly 14:7 

34:17 38:2 
39:3 

exquisite 43:14 
extraordinary 

43:10 

extreme 18:16 
extremely 16:19 

23:7 36:19 

F 

F 12:7 
fact 15:7 17:15 
17:24 29:5,7 
29:20,22 34:8 
49:3 52:2 

49:9 

feasible 51:23 
Federal 1:3 3:4 

3:13 42:16 
felt 36:22,22 
field 45:3 
fight 24:3 
file 55:6 
filed 55:8 
filled 8:21 
filling 45:25 
film 8:21 
final 31:10 
find 13:16,24 
25:23 26:1 
36:18 52:21 
58:19 

finding 6:7 
fine 23:10,12 

30:10,14 

fines 29:14,15 

46:23 

finished 16:5 

52:11 

first 3:4 4:1 5:15 

7:6 9:3 14:1 
15:9,21 16:11 
18:2 26:2 
32:15 33:22 
37:15,23 38:18 
40:10 41:3,9 
42:19 44:23 
46:13,19 48:1 
48:4 54:8,15 
55:2,8 56:15 
59:19 

five 19:18 46:24 
flawed 31:15 
fleeting 4:11 
10:6 25:24 
46:16,22 53:20 
53:23 55:17,24 

focused 6:10 

7:22 

focuses 11:19 
follow 45:6 
follows 47:1 
football 43:24 

43:25 44:9 
45:3,6 

footnote 14:4 
force 15:12 16:7 
34:22 35:12,17 
forced 28:12,15 
former 26:3,6 

43:13 

formulation 
46:12 58:5 

forth 51:15 52:9 
forthright 33:2 
forthrightly 

29:6,22 

forum 53:13 
forward 23:14 

54:5 

found 24:12 
Fox 1:7 3:5 
43:16,21 

freaking 22:19 
free 18:14 39:20 

frequencies 17:3 
friend 32:2 
front 19:6 
full 31:1 
fully 7:17 
fundamental 
41:22 46:17 
fundamentally 

34:9 46:18 
funny 24:24 

further 59:10 

25:7 

61:21 

futility 27:7 
future 43:5 
F-bomb 18:17 
F-Word 4:12 
11:9,19,21 
12:19 13:4,7 
15:6 24:10 
26:23 35:11 
36:1 60:2 61:5 
61:10,16 

G

G 1:17,20 2:3,5 
2:8 3:1,8 28:23 
59:15

game 19:15

43:25,25 50:1 
Garre 1:17 2:3,8 
3:7,7,8,10 4:6 
4:17 5:8,16 6:4 
6:20 7:7,18 9:1 
10:10,18 11:18 
12:5,15,25
13:9,14,18
14:1,16,21
15:19 16:6
17:4,9,19 19:9 
19:19 20:7,11
20:18,21,25
21:7,16,18
22:12,18 23:1 
23:5,12,19
24:8 25:4,10
26:10,13,16

27:18 28:14,21 
30:20 43:18 
54:12 59:14,15 
59:17 60:10,25 
61:13 

gather 13:13,17 

15:10 

gathered 4:2 
GEN 1:17 2:3,8 

3:8 59:15 

general 1:17 3:7 
3:10 4:6,17 5:8 
5:16 6:4,20 7:7 
7:18 9:1 10:10 
10:18 11:18 
12:5,15,25 
13:9,14,18 
14:1,16,21 
15:19 16:6 
17:4,9,19 19:9 
19:19 20:7,11 
20:18,21,25 
21:7,16,18 
22:12,18 23:1 
23:5,12,19
24:8 25:4,10
26:10,13,16
27:18,20 28:14 
28:20 30:20 
43:18 53:23 
54:11 59:14,17
60:10,25 61:13 
61:22 

generally 13:4 

49:11 

George 55:23 
getting 31:6 

36:17,23 38:1 
43:23 50:13 
Ginsburg 7:10 

8:17 11:15 
13:22 17:17 
22:15 23:16,25
27:5 28:11 
30:24 54:10,17
54:20,23 55:1 
55:4 61:10 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

grappled 5:19 
gratuitous 11:5 

holding 4:11 
holdings 48:2 

11:11,24 45:17  home 3:16 16:23 

Ginsburg's 

60:15 

give 31:1,8 59:4 
given 29:13 

36:11 

35:17 

grave 27:10 

38:12 

25:12 

gives 34:16,16 

greater 10:12 

giving 48:19 
Globe 4:8,23 

5:20 6:2 

GREGORY 

1:17 2:3,8 3:8 
59:15 

Globes 30:18,24  grounds 41:24 

go 5:14,18 9:11 

33:3 

groups 14:9 
grown 18:11 
guess 7:3 20:1 
36:19 55:13 

16:5 18:4,4 
26:7 43:17 
46:16 49:25 
50:2 52:1 54:5  guided 6:12 
59:3 

guidance 31:14 

goes 33:18 41:19 

48:7,8 

going 6:12,13 
9:16 18:16 
21:12,12 23:14 
23:14 24:3 
25:24 26:7 
27:1 30:22 
37:13,24 38:1 
38:11 40:22 
44:7 47:2,20 
47:24 48:16 
50:15 53:19 
54:21 57:23 
58:8 59:22 

Golden 4:8,23 

5:20 6:2 18:24 
30:17,23 33:3 

golly 35:25 
good 25:8 39:8 

42:4 52:23 
gotten 20:14 
42:10 51:21 
government 

59:9 

graphic 6:15 

9:14 11:12,21 
12:20 23:8 
25:13 

H 

hand 20:14 27:8 
hand-to-mouth 

43:24 

happens 50:5 
happy 41:16 
harbor 13:9 
hard 55:21 
hardest 56:1,5 
harmful 25:12 
hear 3:3 50:1 
hearing 27:13 

50:10,22 
heart 5:18 
heckler 48:19 
hecklers 48:18 
heckler's 47:22 

48:2,12 

held 4:16 38:23 
help 25:1 
high 45:2,7 
higher 39:16,18 
highest 42:8 
hilarious 24:23 
Hilton 11:8 22:9 

23:1 

history 8:22 
hold 28:4 30:7 

40:6 

inconsistent 

23:23 

incorrect 28:18 
incumbent 

29:23 32:12 
indecency 6:7 
10:1 11:14 
28:5 33:23 
42:20 52:6 
56:15 57:21,22 
57:24,25 59:7 
59:23 60:3 

indecent 3:15,20 
4:12 5:4 10:24 
11:13 12:12,17 
13:11,15 18:3 
18:9 22:8,10 
25:14 26:25 
42:16 49:4,5 
55:14,17,18,19 
56:8,23 57:6 
57:11,21 58:1 
60:12,13,24 
indicated 6:25 

9:17 

indicates 60:1 
indication 29:17 
individual 53:1 
individuals 

21:21 46:24 
industry 15:5 
inevitably 12:22 
inference 36:6 
inform 37:15 
information 
16:17 17:22 
inherent 45:21 
inherently 33:24 

38:18 

inquiry 9:18 
37:12 40:21 
56:16,18 

insofar 25:4 
instance 32:15 
instances 20:13 

52:24 

insult 13:1 

intensifier 13:1 

60:2 

interest 14:9 
32:19 53:8 

interested 52:12 

52:19 

interesting 

30:21 

internet 17:18 

17:25 18:5 

interpretation 
42:19 57:7,10 
58:9 

interpreted 

57:20 

interpretions

57:3 

interview 22:5 

44:10 

introduced 

invades 16:23 

22:23 

17:15 

invalidate 6:23 
invalidated 8:8 

28:16 

invalidating

3:23 

invitation 22:23 
invite 23:5 
invited 22:11,13
involves 3:12 
involving 6:7 
irrefutable 

14:17 

isolated 3:21 

4:11,21 5:3,21 
9:7,13 12:9 
18:10,15 19:12 
20:15 21:9 
22:4 23:15 
27:2 28:4 
45:23 

issue 15:11,25
16:1 27:14,15
30:17 31:3 
33:2 37:8 38:2 

17:15 51:22 
Honor 17:19 

59:11 

Honors 46:25 
hope 53:8 
horrified 44:24 
hours 14:14 

18:16 24:5,5,6 
humanity 19:1 
hypotheticals 

9:19 

I

idea 29:9 33:4 
identifies 30:21
Idol 18:19
ignoring 27:16
illustration 53:7
image 12:22
immediately

26:8 35:7
43:17

impact 25:12

34:14

implicates 46:18
implicit 9:24
important 32:8

41:21

impose 5:24

30:10,14 43:4 
47:21,24 53:4 
58:20

imposes 57:2
impresses 46:25
impressionable

44:4

inappropriate

6:22 11:25
21:21,22,23,24
35:14 46:25
incident 5:3
21:12 22:9

incidents 20:13
including 6:14

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

38:14 40:17 
41:2,4,7 46:18 
57:18 59:21 
61:20 

issued 4:23 
issues 15:23 

27:19,24 28:1 
28:2,10 40:15 
46:19 60:21 

i.e 57:24 
J 
jazz 8:21 
Jeopardy 18:18 
joint 14:4 
jokes 25:8 
Judge 27:25 
58:6 61:11 

judgment 22:1 

36:11 49:6 
51:5 

jump 35:7 
jurisprudential 

16:13 

31:13,20 32:1 
32:17,22 33:9 
33:16,20 34:11 
34:23 35:10,15 
35:22,25 36:8 
37:7,18,21 
38:6,10,23 
39:4,10,16,21 
39:24,25 40:4 
40:12,16,25 
41:6,10,13,20 
41:23,25 42:4 
42:22 43:9,18 
44:3,17 45:5 
45:10,19,22 
46:1,3,6 47:2,5 
47:10,16,23 
48:7,10,12,15 
49:7,15,20 
50:1,3,13,21 
50:24 51:13 
52:7,19 54:10 
54:17,20,23 
55:1,4,12,15 
55:16 56:6,10 
56:21 57:6,9 
57:15,16,18 
58:3,10,12,17 
59:3,12,18,19 
59:22 60:5,15 
60:22 61:10,22 

Justice's 48:22 
justification 
33:10 54:7 
justifications 

Justice 1:18 3:3 
3:11,25 4:7,13 
5:5,9,12,14,25 
6:16 7:3,10,20 
8:17 10:4,14 
11:15 12:1,11 
12:16,23 13:5 
13:12,16,22 
14:12,19 15:10 
16:4 17:1,7,10 
17:17 18:20 
19:4,10,13,25 
20:9,16,19,24 
21:5,10,17 
22:9,15,22 
23:4,10,16,25 
24:20 25:1,7 
25:21 26:11,14  Kennedy 5:5,9 
26:15 27:5 
28:11,20,25 
29:3,12,21 
30:2,5,16,19 
30:24 31:4,8 

justified 55:11 
justify 49:8 

5:12 14:19 
51:13 55:15 

53:21 
K

8:12 

23:18 26:24 
28:7 32:6 34:2 

kind 19:16 23:5 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

34:19 

57:10 

57:12 

17:2,22 

machine 21:2 
mail 36:17,23 

lessen 51:12 
lesser 15:8 16:11  maintained 

kinds 36:3 57:25 
know 18:25 20:2 
20:4 30:6,7,11 
31:5 36:13,22 
38:3 40:8 41:9  Let's 45:14 53:3  making 9:5 15:2 
41:14,23 43:16 
43:19 44:9,9 
44:18 46:12,21 
48:16 49:1 
50:8 55:9 
knows 46:19 

Leval 61:11 
limitation 40:11  mandate 3:14 
limited 23:22 
line 27:6 60:1 
Lion 17:5,8 
list 11:17 61:12  margins 9:19 
matches 20:2 
listen 44:6,7 
material 3:15 
listened 12:14 
matter 1:13 32:3 
listener 14:6 
literal 26:22 

landmark 39:4
language 3:20

manners 50:7 
map 60:17 

15:3 23:13 
46:9 

8:8 

L

6:15,25 10:16 
10:21,24 11:4 
11:8,22 12:21 
13:11,15 14:14 
18:9 21:23
23:8 25:14
26:25 31:21
34:2,6 35:8 
49:25 50:16,17
51:21 56:16
58:17,25
large 52:25
largely 17:2
latest 4:13
laugh 25:2
Laughter 19:3

21:4 24:25
25:9 36:2
41:18 42:1,6
49:22

launched 11:9
Laval 27:25
law 39:12 40:10 

40:10

lawmakers 14:8 
lead 8:1 
leave 52:13,14 
Leaving 36:25 
Lebal 58:6 
legal 6:17 7:4 
lenient 43:6,7 
lenity 42:18,23 

live 18:23 19:5,9  mean 7:14 8:20 

35:1,3 60:12 
little 8:24 14:3 

49:24 

19:16 22:24 
45:9 
lo 19:5 
loads 53:18 
local 43:23 
logical 40:8 
long 48:2 60:1 
longstanding 

11:13 

37:1 40:8 
51:18 53:20 
56:21 60:3 
61:1,25

10:7 13:6 
22:23 23:2 
25:7 30:5 
33:24 35:18 
42:23 44:13,18
45:13,15 48:5 
48:19 49:17 
50:12 54:18 
57:16 58:4,16
60:5 

look 6:4 8:11 
14:5 20:21 
22:6 30:23 
32:3 37:10,12 
40:21 43:1 
45:14 47:20,25  means 42:17,18
52:20 

meaning 12:13 
12:13,19 34:5 
35:1,3,9 42:16 
57:23 

55:14 

looked 7:23 
16:12 23:7 
32:23 51:14 
58:6 

looking 14:8 

37:4 

meant 22:1 
measures 21:24 
media 15:17,17
medium 13:20 
14:3 15:13,16
17:21 61:6 

lost 42:10 
lot 18:23 47:14  met 9:13 
lower 18:2 41:1  metaphorical

mediums 17:25 

M

12:7 

middle 43:25 

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Nicole 10:15 

11:5,8 20:22 
21:22 

night 23:9 
nine-year-old 

44:23 

non-content 

37:6 

53:19 

once-upon-a-t... 

45:23 

ones 10:8 
one-parent 

51:14 

open 45:19 47:3 

47:3 

12:18 26:22 

non-literal 12:6 

opening 18:18 
operation 8:18 
non-literal/lite...  opinion 21:11 
29:10 30:8 
33:21 49:2 
opportunity 

12:8 

normal 50:5 
normally 37:6 
notion 53:20 
November 1:11 
number 10:25 

40:23 44:8,15 
53:11 56:11,19  opposite 31:21 

7:16 31:1 51:8 

opposed 7:5 

59:1 

penalty 58:14 

23:17,19,23 
25:18 26:16,20 
26:21 46:10,11  people 16:24 
19:6 20:14 
48:7,9,9 49:16 
55:22,23 61:18 
34:25 36:3,16 
36:18,21 47:9 
47:12,14,18,19 
48:15 50:9 
58:20 

17:20 27:22,23 
31:18 59:19,24 
60:10 

page 2:2 14:3 

pages 5:10 6:5 
13:21 16:15 
19:21 

pandering 9:15 

perceive 44:14 

44:17 

percent 11:3 
perfectly 41:11 

11:7 22:13 
23:3 25:6 48:3  permits 19:12 
permitted 8:15 

46:12 

36:17 

Pandora's 47:4 
paragraph 4:8 
4:10 5:19,19 
30:23 

person 21:2 48:9 
persuaded 50:9 
oral 1:13 2:2 3:8  parents 51:8,15  pertaining 24:9 

50:15 

28:23 

51:18,22 

pervasiveness

order 4:1,2,8,13  Paris 11:7 22:9 

17:13 

44:10 

midnight 24:4 
minimum 8:6,14 

28:6 

minutes 59:14 
misled 30:13 
mistake 48:25 
misunderstood 

56:14 

monologue 
26:21,23 

morning 3:4 
mouth 22:25 
move 46:10 
moves 37:17 
music 6:8,8 
20:12 44:8 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
NAB 43:12 
52:22,25 

narrow 23:23 

24:15 

narrowest 29:3 
naturally 47:1 
nature 6:15 23:8 

necessarily 34:4 

52:10 

34:25 

need 15:22 

29:11 60:21 
network 16:21 
networks 11:23 
13:2,11 18:13 
18:14,22 19:11 
20:14 24:1,4 
24:10 28:19 
53:1 

O
O 2:1 3:1 
objection 13:7 
obligation 33:7 
obviously 15:21 

22:20 38:12 
39:13 40:10 
52:25 

occurred 20:17 

52:24 60:23 

odds 34:9 
offended 47:13 
47:18 48:17 
49:12 

offensive 13:17 

16:25 19:12 
36:19 48:16 
61:2,5,15,16 
61:17 

officials 43:13 

4:24 5:15,20 
6:1 7:19 29:5 
30:18,22,24 
31:11,24 32:3 
33:4 40:14 
55:7,8 59:21 
orders 4:22,25 
ordinarily 29:22 
organs 26:18 

23:1 

part 5:14 11:7 

15:4 22:5 
25:14,16 31:7 
41:21 42:9 
47:19 52:20 

participate 

53:12 

particular 4:24 

56:18 

Oscars 18:25 
ought 28:8 
37:15 54:1 

outer 9:19 
Outside 13:9 
overbreadth 

45:20 

13:24 15:6,16  PGL 51:20 
24:23 31:24 
34:5,8 35:9 
40:2,7 43:15 
45:4 50:20 
51:25 56:11,16 
56:22 59:9 
particularly 

oversight 15:18 
o'clock 13:8 

18:8 

25:13 

particulars 

54:25 

petition 4:9 6:5 

7:19 13:3 
16:15 19:22 
21:19 24:11 
54:19 55:6,8
59:20,25

Petitioners 1:5 
1:19 2:4,9 3:9 
59:16 

Phillips 1:20 2:5 

28:22,23,25
29:19 30:4,15
30:20 31:7,10
31:19 32:11,21
32:25 33:15,18
34:17 35:6,13 
35:18,23 36:3 
37:3,9,19 38:5 
38:9 39:2,9,11
39:18,23 40:3 
40:6,14,20
41:5,10,15,19
42:2,7 43:7 
44:12,22 45:7 

never 4:3,16,20  Oh 25:7 

8:8 53:23 

new 7:14 11:16 

29:15,18,20 
news 10:5,8,11 

oil 37:13 40:22 
okay 4:4 8:25 
23:18 25:8 
53:25 

10:15,19 19:22  omnibus 4:24 
20:1 22:5 
52:14 

45:19 47:3 

once 43:1 45:13  pacifica 9:21,25 
17:5,18 18:12 

P 3:1 

P

parties 31:6 
parts 19:2 
patently 61:2,5 

61:15,16,17 

penalized 43:17 

69 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

pursuing 52:8 
put 43:21 51:17 

7:5,6,17,25 8:4  prior 5:21 6:18 
7:1,5 24:14 
8:9,13 24:12 
30:6 31:14 
24:19 26:24 
36:20 57:19,20  putting 44:25 
32:10,12,15 
33:22 34:24,24  Private 8:20 9:8  p.m 23:8 47:6 
35:1 40:17 
42:3 44:13 
50:19 55:5,11 
59:4,4,5 

probably 29:20 

qualify 12:17

10:7 44:19 

55:2 

61:1

Q

45:18 46:1,4,8 
47:8,12,22 
48:1,8,11,14 
48:21 49:14,17 
49:23 50:12,23 
51:1,17 52:18 
52:22 54:10,16 
54:18,21,24 
55:4,13,15,20 
56:9,13,25 
57:8,14 58:2 
58:17 59:13 

phrasing 57:18 
pipeline 37:13 

40:23 

place 16:23,23 

18:7 21:24 
places 5:18 

27:22 

positions 48:18 
possibly 45:1 
post-game 22:5 
potentially 

25:12 46:22 
60:13 

practical 18:20 

52:8,12,20 

practice 24:14 
24:15 27:20 
57:21,24 

37:3 41:24 
44:24 47:14 
49:24 60:25 
61:2 

problem 29:21 

38:12,19 45:18 
47:1 48:21 
52:20 

problems 8:17 

45:20 

procedure 37:5 
38:25 39:3,7 
39:11 

plausible 8:7 
plausibly 34:19 
player 45:3,6,7 
please 3:11 29:1  precedents 16:7  proceedings 

practices 15:4 
precedence 60:1 

procedures 3:24 
8:16 16:3 39:6 

41:2 

plurality 17:11 
point 25:10 32:8 

32:8 33:19 
36:5 42:23 
45:10,15 46:8 
46:10 59:5 
points 51:7 
policies 8:23 

13:15,21 15:4 
24:10 49:9 

precise 58:5 
precisely 34:14 

37:25 

precludes 59:8 
prefer 47:14 
prepared 29:8 
present 8:10 

10:13 

presented 11:13 

15:25 50:4 
61:8 

policy 3:18 4:1,3  presumably 

31:11 

4:5,6 5:6,15,24 
6:19 7:9,12,14  pretty 29:17 
8:14 9:6,11 
46:21 52:23 
previous 53:13 
11:16 23:17 
previously 60:6 
25:19 26:6 
price 37:13 
29:6,7,18,20 
29:23,24,25 
30:1 33:11 
36:23 42:24 

primary 48:6 
prime-time 

40:22 

polite 50:5 
population 48:4  principal 8:11 
position 4:19 5:6 

10:24 

17:21 

43:5 

produced 50:7 
program 45:25 

52:10 

programming 

10:11 18:4 
19:10,20 

prong 26:2,9,9 
26:13 33:23 
36:14 42:19 
56:15 

proper 25:2 
provide 31:10 
32:13 54:13 
provided 3:22 
8:5 16:2 32:9 
60:19 

provides 60:17 
psychic 34:20 
public 14:9 

32:19 53:8,10 
53:13 

purpose 56:24 
purposes 49:4 

really 24:23 

25:8 27:7,15 
30:7 36:16 
37:25 39:8 

reason 8:19,24 
9:2 32:22 34:8 
34:12,14 35:2 
35:8,13 36:24 
49:10 50:18 

reasonable 32:4 

32:9 60:19 
reasonably

11:10 

reasoned 3:22 

16:2 27:9 
54:13 

reasons 29:13 
REBUTTAL 

2:7 59:15 
receive 31:8 
recognize 13:19 
25:11 29:5,24
43:9 

recognized 4:18 

5:9,11,13
recognizes

13:11 

recognizing
10:22 31:17
52:4

reconsider 3:25

reconsidering

7:8

3:18 

record 25:22
35:23 36:10
Red 17:5,5,7
reference 12:3
refers 34:15

39:13

reflect 56:3
reflected 15:20
reflection 14:14

14:17

reflects 49:2,5
refuse 53:5
refused 53:10 

question 7:3 9:5 

16:7 18:21
24:22 27:6
29:3 32:2
33:20 35:4
41:20 43:18
48:22 49:10
52:13 54:11
55:12 56:7,14
56:15 59:22
60:19,22 61:8 
questions 5:14
15:11 59:10
61:21

quintessential

53:17

quite 33:5
quote 60:1
R

R 3:1
radical 28:7
rational 8:14
rationale 17:2,5

17:6,13
raw 37:4,7
reach 36:6 41:3 
reaction 45:1
read 17:9,11
29:10 30:8
49:1 55:22
59:6,7

reading 9:21,23

34:9

reaffirmed

31:15

reality 29:9 34:1 

40:7 41:19

70 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

regard 42:8 
regardless 12:13 
regime 43:11 

45:21 

requires 46:14 

reserve 27:4 

53:21 

59:11 

30:24 31:19 
32:21 38:10 
40:18 45:25 
46:15 54:21 

41:24 

60:17 

28:6 38:17 

37:14 40:22 

respectable 

regulation 28:4 

14:22 19:9 
24:12 33:3,22 

resolve 29:4 
resolving 15:23 

rights 48:5 
risk 53:15 
road 60:17 

regular 13:7 
regulated 15:4 
regulates 15:16 
regulating 37:12  respect 6:6 9:6,6  ROBERTS 3:3 
6:16 7:3 10:4 
10:14 13:5 
14:12 15:10 
28:20 31:13 
32:1,17,22 
33:9,16 34:23 
35:10,15 39:21 
39:25 40:4,12 
40:16 42:22 
44:3,17 45:5 
45:10 47:5,10 
47:16,23 58:10 
59:12 61:22 

regulatory 5:1 
reject 28:17 
rejected 9:25 
rejecting 31:18 
relatively 57:23 
relied 17:7 
rely 17:6 
remand 4:24 
5:15 7:12,19 
27:12 29:5 
54:6,12 55:7 
61:8 

respects 31:12 
Respondents 
1:21 2:6 7:22 
9:4 28:3,24 

24:16 38:21,22 
42:12 47:20 

responsibilities 

responsibility 

23:24 

rest 17:12 
restraint 10:12 
10:22 23:13 

role 58:15 
room 27:16 
routine 25:15 
routinely 34:3 

remark 24:23 
remarkable 

18:12 

remarkably 

40:21 

remember 

44:13 

Remind 23:25 
remotely 33:6 
34:3 35:8,24 

restriction 
38:17 40:9 
restrictions 
39:20,24 

restrictive 51:24 
reversed 61:7 
review 6:17 

25:21 30:22 
54:19 55:7,8 

53:24 

rule 13:3 15:5 

27:16 42:18,23 
48:23 53:3 
57:11 

running 45:3 
Ryan 8:20 9:8 

10:7 44:19 

Reno 14:23 16:9  reviewable 
repeated 3:21 
revisit 46:10 
6:10 9:7,9,11 
12:10 18:10,15  rewrote 5:25 
55:19 

rhyme 8:18,24 

31:11 

9:2 

repeatedly 16:8 
repetition 57:24  Richey 10:15 
report 10:15,19 
reports 10:20 
represents 

Richie 20:22 

11:6,9 

21:22 

52:25 

reprinted 4:9 
7:19 13:2,21 
require 57:12 

right 10:21 

14:22 20:5,24 
20:24 21:6,7 
26:10 29:21 

S
S 2:1 3:1 
Sable 16:8
safe 13:9
safety 18:2
sanction 47:24
sanctions 43:4

satisfied 33:6
satisfies 24:18

satisfy 36:12

57:2

54:8

37:2

Saving 8:20 9:8 

10:6 44:19 

saw 60:6 
saying 6:2 11:8 
20:5,9 24:14 
30:6 39:25 
40:20 44:5 
45:12 46:4,17 
47:2 51:1 
55:10 57:11,19 
57:24,25 

says 4:14 8:24 

8:25 30:23 
32:17,18 35:6 
39:3,5,5,12 
42:20 44:9 
53:3 58:19 
59:25 61:11 
Scalia 3:25 4:7 

second 4:2 6:23 
7:11,15 14:4 
26:2 27:8,13 
27:21 28:2 
29:8 30:25 
31:22 49:10 
51:11 54:2,21 
seconds 19:18 
section 42:13,13 

see 20:3 21:17 

58:21 

37:11 

seeing 8:18 
segment 48:4 
self-imposed 

15:5 

Senatorial 53:11 
send 28:18 31:1 
sense 43:8 
separate 37:25 

55:6 

44:22 

separated 60:20 
separately 60:18 
serious 46:19 
seriously 31:15 

4:13 5:25 
12:23 13:12,16 
20:16,19,24 
21:5 22:9,22 
23:4,10 25:7 
30:2,5,16,19 
31:4,8 34:11 
35:22,25 38:23  serve 49:6 
39:4,10,16 
40:25 41:6,10 
41:13 42:4 
45:22 46:1,3,6 
48:7,10,12,15 
49:20 50:1,3 
50:21,24 58:12  sexual 11:23 
58:17 59:19 
12:4,21,22
Scalia's 5:14 
26:18 33:24 
34:15 35:9,16
42:21 55:24 
56:4,17

scarcity 17:2,12 
scheme 43:15 

Sesame 18:17 
set 14:3 20:6 

setup 23:4 
seven 23:22 

23:2 44:14,15 

61:20 

29:3 

49:23 

school 45:2,7 
scope 60:3 
screaming 45:3 
script 22:16,17 

22:18 

scripted 22:10 
scrutiny 15:9 

share 47:9,11
shift 28:8 41:22 

46:15 

shock 46:11,20
shocked 35:2 
shocking 9:14 

11:11 23:7 
25:5 35:11 

71 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

17:10 24:20 
25:1 49:7,15 
50:13 55:12,16 
56:6,10,21 
57:6,9,15,18 
60:22 

Stevens's 59:3 
stimulation 

34:21 

sports 18:24 

52:14 

staff 4:15 30:12 

32:7 

stake 10:23 
standard 7:4,21 

9:20 15:9 
16:11 17:2,23 
18:2 24:18 
33:23 36:12 
37:5,7 39:17 
39:19 

Street 18:17 
strike 35:8 
strikingly 30:16 
string 56:2 
student 44:1 
stuff 42:4 

standards 13:19 
13:23,25 14:2 
14:2,5,11,15 
14:18,20,21,25  subject 12:12 
15:8 16:10 
36:15,20 37:2 
52:9 60:3 61:1 
49:4,8 61:3,6 
submitted 61:23 
61:14 

show 20:11 

25:15 43:21 
44:6 

showed 26:6 
shows 10:17 

16:21 50:6,8 
significantly 

49:18 

similar 9:5,22 
37:23 54:11 

similarly 10:18 
simpliciter 
41:13,16 
simply 4:15 
24:14 28:3 
33:2 42:25 
46:25 48:3 
49:5 53:3,5 

single 4:3 
situation 5:4 
10:13 22:2,8 
56:2,5 

standing 44:20 
start 29:2 
state 20:4,5 

situations 9:17 
32:11,18,18 
small 48:3 52:15  statement 6:2 
societal 18:11 
society 49:18 
solely 46:23 
Solicitor 1:17 

statements 4:14 
4:15 5:17 14:8 

24:1 

States 1:1,14 
station 43:23 

3:7 

53:10 

stations 1:7 3:6 
18:22 52:13,15 
53:1,5 

statistics 51:14 
statute 12:13 

somebody 44:9 
somewhat 30:8 

30:9 

sorry 48:11 57:8 
sort 22:22 31:5 
37:4 57:12,18 

sorts 15:16 
source 17:21 
Souter 29:12,21 

61:25 

substantial 

10:25 25:16 
suddenly 34:5 

38:14 49:3 
sufficiency 

suggest 48:3 

suggested 5:4 

36:25 

58:18 

27:12 

suggesting 
31:20 34:3 
39:6 51:2 
58:13 

suggests 35:24 
39:15 42:11,12  supplied 24:13 
support 35:20 
42:17 52:2,2 
supports 40:5 
57:1 58:14,16 
58:18,19,22,23  suppose 10:4 
14:12 35:19 
46:6 

36:8 37:7,18 
statutes 39:13 
37:21 38:6,10 
41:23,25 57:16  statutory 3:14 
58:3 

8:7 47:20 
56:21 

specifically 5:20 

5:23 30:20 
speech 37:14 
39:7,20,24 
sporting 22:4 

stay 46:21 
step 43:8 
Stevens 12:1,11 
12:16 17:1,7 

supposed 18:22 

19:5 30:3 

Supreme 1:1,14 
sure 43:16 44:12 

51:13 56:7 
survey 13:24 

swear 19:2,7 
26:4,7 34:13 
60:7 

switchover 

46:16 

system 19:16 

53:22,24 54:1 
S-Word 11:9,20 

22:20 26:23 
35:13 61:17 

T

T 2:1,1
table 51:25
take 6:13 8:15 

9:8 24:22
25:11,19 31:2 
47:16 48:18
53:9,15

taken 50:19 59:9 
takes 25:5
talk 41:11 42:22 
talked 25:25
talking 14:19
19:25 20:1
34:18 39:19,23
40:24 43:10
47:4 53:16

tape 19:11,16,17

21:23 43:19
52:16,17

tapes 21:14 52:8 

tape-delayed

technologies

52:13

53:16

17:16

technology

51:23 53:16
televise 43:24
television 1:7

3:5 9:24 15:8 
16:22 18:22
20:6 22:24
23:21 24:3
43:23 50:6
60:17

tell 25:22 
term 56:8 
terms 6:17 29:3 

42:15 51:11 
57:21,22 58:16 

terribly 15:15 
terrorem 43:11 
test 26:3 
Thank 3:10 

28:20,25 41:25 
41:25 59:12,17
61:22 

thing 7:14 18:13 
23:2,18 25:22 
26:2 30:9,15
33:14 36:8,9
43:21 44:18,20
45:24 46:2,5
48:24 51:7 
52:8 61:4 
things 20:17 
24:24 29:16 
49:24 

think 4:18 5:10 
5:16,25 6:1,4,6 
6:16,24 7:4,20 
7:25 8:3,13 9:1 
9:16,21 11:20 
11:23 12:11 
13:18 14:15,16
14:17 15:19,19 
15:22 17:4,24
20:7,18 21:7 
21:14 22:19,21
23:2 24:17 
25:3,11 26:5 
26:24 28:14 
29:2,20,21
32:15,25 33:8 
33:10,14,19
35:11 36:9 
37:3,9 38:9 
41:23 43:8 
44:16 47:10 
48:8,20,25
49:1,11,20
50:12,23,24 

72 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

53:14,25 55:10 
55:16,20,21

56:1,14,15,19

57:19 59:5 
60:15,23,25 
61:13,15,17,18 

thinking 40:8 
thinks 31:23 
third 14:6 
thought 6:21 
22:17 35:1 
38:23 39:1 
56:25 

threat 38:13 
three 8:1,6,9,11 

56:8 

Tuesday 1:11 
turn 9:18 16:20 

18:7 20:5 
Turner 16:9 

17:20 

turns 45:15 
TV 13:4 16:18 

16:19 18:1,3,4 
18:6,8 

two 8:4 11:15 

21:1 57:3 59:6 
59:14 

type 9:4 19:20 
typically 16:24 

U 

27:22 
Thy 31:2 
ultimate 7:21 
till 30:12 
time 3:16 7:6,9,9  uncertainty 
20:17 21:1 
24:2 25:19 
26:14 30:6 
34:4 50:2 51:3 
times 15:6 55:19 
55:25 56:11,19 

underlie 16:13 
underscores 

unconstitutio... 

28:5,6 

14:25 

18:1 

tipped 27:8 
titillating 25:6 
today 10:3,19 

15:12,24 18:14 
49:11,19 

tolerant 49:12 

49:18 50:16,17 
50:21 

tone 34:6 
touchstone 

36:14 

understand 

17:10 21:11 
35:19 55:21 
61:12 

understanding 
7:1 21:8 24:9 

undertake 45:12 
unduly 23:23 

24:15 

unelected 46:24 
unfortunately 

14:13 

voluntary 13:6 

vulgar 11:22 
12:20 25:13 
34:20 

13:15 14:13 
15:6 18:15 
20:6,10,12 
22:10 24:9 
35:25 36:3 
44:18 45:23,24  V-chip 51:18,19 
47:6 52:16 
55:23 56:19 
58:1 60:1,6,7 
60:23 

51:23 

W

uses 26:22 44:15 

44:15 60:13 

utterance 10:24 
utterances 9:7,7 

9:10,12 

U.S.C 3:14 
V 

waddles 35:25
want 7:12 18:3 
28:1 41:7,8,8
43:24 44:6
52:15,17

wanted 7:16

24:4 52:1,10
52:11

warning 29:16
v 1:6 34:18 51:9  warrant 5:22 
vacate 54:5 
Washington
vagueness 9:4 
1:10,18,20

9:18,25 45:20  wasn't 6:21 7:10 

value 35:11 
values 10:13,23 
varies 19:19 
variety 52:23 
verbal 46:11,20 

Vermont 39:22 

version 41:16 

58:5 

53:10 

51:20 

versus 3:5 12:10 
veto 47:22 48:2 

48:13 

17:1 20:19,19
22:11,15,16
30:13 54:18

watch 11:8 18:8 

22:24 

way 7:2,20 12:6 

12:7 16:22 
17:15 27:14
29:4 34:10 
36:21 37:10,20
48:4 49:25
55:22,24 57:18 
58:6 59:7 

view 22:12 32:5  ways 44:1 59:6 

38:15


woods 45:14

word 11:21 12:2 
12:18,20 18:18 
20:22 22:10,16 
26:7 34:13,19 
44:10,15,16,18 
45:2 55:14,17
56:11,22 57:11 
57:23 58:1 
60:24 61:12,14

words 8:22,25
11:16,16,22
12:21 15:14 
19:7,14 21:1 
23:22 26:4,4,5
26:23 33:24 
34:25 35:2 
47:6 48:17 
49:12,13,18
50:1,10 55:18 
57:25 60:6,8
60:11,13 61:20 

working 21:2 

51:15,19

works 51:13 
world 18:13 
38:19 44:11 
worse 53:19 
worth 21:14 
wouldn't 12:15 
33:1 35:7 61:2 

wrestling 20:2 
wrong 32:24 
33:11 36:20 
57:17 
went 41:6 53:22  wrote 17:11 
weren't 20:20
36:21 

X

42:2 

uninvited 16:24 
unique 12:9 
17:13,14 

track 42:10 
treated 10:11 
12:12 60:7,9 
60:12 
treatment 46:11  United 1:1,14 
22:24 46:4,17 
unreliable 31:25  violate 58:19,21  we've 4:3 7:11 
46:20 
usable 51:23 
usage 36:16
use 4:3,11,21 

32:6,19 34:8 
38:2 61:18 
viewing 3:17 
11:1,3 24:5 
25:16,20 

37:8 38:23 
43:9

violation 8:22 

virtuous 30:3 

we're 21:12 

58:14 

10:16 11:19,24  voluntarily 
12:18 13:4,11 

48:25 

whatnot 30:8
whatsoever 12:3
withdrawal

triggers 38:15 
true 12:1,2 29:8 
truth 51:19 
try 51:11 54:7 
trying 55:14 

x 1:2,9

Y

Yankee 39:22
years 18:12 36:5 
36:7,15 49:19 
50:14

young 45:2,5,7

73 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Z 
zing 34:16 
zone 18:2 
$ 

$325,000 46:23 

0 

07-582 1:6 3:4 

1 

1 26:9,13 36:14 

56:18 

10:00 13:8 47:6 
10:05 1:15 3:2 
108 16:15 
11:05 61:24 
110 16:15 
12 4:8 5:19 

30:23

13 14:4 
1464 3:14 5:23 
42:13 58:21 
18 3:14 11:4 
190 17:20 
1970 34:21 
1978 17:18 34:2 

51:5,8 

1987 23:20 

2 

2 26:9 
2a 27:22 
20a 5:10 
20-some 36:5,7 
2002 6:8 20:13 
2003 6:7 11:6 
20:13 51:20 

2004 23:17 34:2 

34:5 

2008 1:11 34:22 
21a 5:10 
24 11:2 14:14 

18:16 

24-hour 13:3 

48:22 

28 2:6 11:3 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

3 

3 2:4 
30 18:12 49:19 

50:14 
33 14:4 
35a 27:23 
4 

4 1:11 

5 

5-second 20:16 

21:13 

503 42:13 
59 2:9 

6 
6:00 47:7 
7

73-A 59:25

74 60:10 
8
8:00 18:8
82 6:5
82a 31:18
82-A 59:19
83 6:5
86 13:3 24:10 
86a 13:21 
88a 13:21 24:10 

9
9:00 23:8
94 19:21
95a 19:21

74 

Alderson Reporting Company 

