Official - Subject to Final Review

   IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ANUP ENGQUIST,                    :
            Petitioner            :
       v.                         :  No. 07-474
OREGON DEPARTMENT OF              :
AGRICULTURE, ET AL.               :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Monday, April 21, 2008

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
NEAL KATYAL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the
   Petitioner.
JANET A. METCALF, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,
   Salem, Ore.; on behalf of the Respondents.
LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,
   Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
   the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
   Respondents.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                   C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
NEAL KATYAL, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                       3
JANET A. METCALF, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondents                     26
LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.
   On behalf of the United States, as amicus
   Curiae, supporting the Respondents               46
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
NEAL KATYAL, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                      55

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                            (11:05 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll argument next
in Case 07-474, Engquist v. Oregon Department of
Agriculture.
            Mr. Katyal.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KATYAL
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
            MR. KATYAL:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
            The Ninth Circuit held that no
discrimination against a public employee is prohibited
by the Equal Protection Clause unless the targeted
person is a member of the suspect class or exercises a
fundamental right.  No matter how outrageous or evil and
no matter how unrelated to any legitimate government
interest, the clause provides zero protection.  This
theory is contrary to the Constitution's text.  It is
inconsistent with this Court's precedents.  It is
unworkable and is unnecessary.
            The Ninth Circuit ignored the Equal
Protection Clause's guarantee to any person that the
State will not use its vast powers to discriminate
without a legitimate government purpose and particularly
not in ways that lead to inefficient government.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            This Court has articulated three principles
that control this case.  First, the Constitution
protects the individual from irrational discrimination.
Second, the Fourteenth Amendment applies to public
employers and rational-basis review applies to public
employment.  And third, the clause applies to the
administrative actions of State officials, not just
legislatures.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Rational-basis review
normally doesn't inquire into the actual motive, for
example, of the State legislators who impose such a tax
or impose such a restriction.  We simply ask:  Could
there have been a rational basis for this?  Now, are you
willing to abide by that test?
            MR. KATYAL:  We are, Your Honor.  The Ninth
Circuit below said no rational-basis test ever; and,
indeed, the trial in this case allowed the government to
articulate any rationale, conceivable or not.  We do
think, even though it doesn't make --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Listen to what I'm saying.
Not whether you could decide that, given all of the
facts of this case, the criticism of the co- workers and
all of that, whether it is conceivable to say that this
was done on a rational basis.  That isn't the
rational-basis test.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            It's just sitting back without these factual
inquiries, just as we don't inquire factually into why
the State legislature acted, just asking:  Could there
have been a rational basis for the dismissal of this
employee?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Your Honor, we do agree that
that last part, Justice Scalia, looking at could there
have been a rational basis, is the proper test.  But
that is a factual determination at some level that, as
this Court in Kimel and a variety of other cases has
said, that you still have to look to the underlying
facts.  And even the Solicitor General doesn't disagree
at page 5 of their brief when they say you have to look
to whether -- that whatever that rationale is, it is
supported by the record.  The government had the
opportunity to --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So that what you do
in this case -- I mean the person is fired and that's
all you know.  And so you go back and see:  Well, is
there any possible reason?  So you look at the time
sheets.  Oh, here are a few days where she punched in
late.  That's a possible reason, and that's enough?
            MR. KATYAL:  Well, we do think that that can
be enough; and, indeed, that's what the government had
their opportunity to argue in this case.  The Ninth

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Circuit, of course, cuts off even that very deferential
inquiry altogether.  Now --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So in that case --
and then let's say you're at trial, and you ask:  Did
you fire this person because she punched in late a few
times?  I take it hat the objection would be that that's
irrelevant, and that would be sustained.
            MR. KATYAL:  Well, if it is a counter-
factual -- I mean, the plaintiff would have the
opportunity to negate the facts on whatever that
rationale.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, no.  The record
shows she was -- a few times she punched in late.
            MR. KATYAL:  And if it has anything to do
with government efficiency, the rational-basis test is
that deferential to permit that to go forward.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  What about he didn't like
him?  I'm the supervisor; I didn't like him.
            MR. KATYAL:  Even that, Justice Breyer, is
enough so long as it's related to government efficiency.
That is --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  Now, you say
related.  If the truth is I don't like this person,
good-bye, now, is that rational?  When you say -- I
mean, you know as much about the case now as I do --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

not this case but, you know, that's all we know.  Is
that rational or not?
            MR. KATYAL:  That, by itself, is not because
the government has --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  Now that seems
to me to be the problem, that either -- going back to
Justice Scalia's point, you're either going to say
rational in these circumstances, which means you go into
it whether the time sheet was this or whether it was
that or the other; or you say, hey, it's always rational
because he could have fired him because he doesn't like
the person.  That's -- and I don't see some intermediate
step there.
            To put the question differently, every
government has a, State and Federal, has an
administrative procedures act.  That forbids
unreasonable, arbitrary action.  But why do they need
that if the Constitution does it by itself?
            MR. KATYAL:  Okay.  Let me say two things
because there are two different questions there.  One
has to do with the State laws, and so on.  And this
Court has never said that the existence of other State
remedies somehow displaces the Equal Protection Clause
or other constitutional guarantees.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What about on the Federal

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

level?  Could a Federal employee who says just what was
alleged here come right into Court to bring a Bivens
action and says, I was discriminated against and
similarly situated people were not, and it was
irrational?  Could a Federal employee come to court with
such a complaint?
            MR. KATYAL:  The answer is no, Justice
Ginsburg, and the reason is at footnote 18 of our brief,
and I believe the Solicitor General doesn't disagree in
large amount.  That is that for Bivens the question is,
will the court imply a right of action, as opposed to
the issue in this case, which is Section 1983.  There is
a statutory right of action already in existence.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And it doesn't matter
that the State has civil service remedies that were not
used --
            MR. KATYAL:  Not --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- or there were union
grievance procedures that aren't used?  You can go right
into Federal court and say, I don't have to use those
State remedies?
            MR. KATYAL:  That is correct.  It doesn't --
the existence of those State remedies does not displace
by itself without a statutory -- without Congress coming
in and mandating exhaustion or something like that.  But

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

in the absence of that, this Court has not said, outside
of the limited area of procedural due process, that the
existence of either collective-bargaining agreements or
State laws somehow displaces a Federal constitutional
guarantee.
            Now, if I could return to the first part of
Justice Breyer's question, which was the dividing line
in whether there is a clear standard, let me articulate
this as one.  We believe that when a government employer
comes in and asserts some sort of objective reality, you
know, so for here they said the wheat prices are
declining, the plaintiff should have a chance to negate
that and say, well, it turned out that actually the
wheat prices weren't declining, and so on.
            If, however, the plaintiff -- the government
articulates the rationale that you had put forth before,
I don't like you, and somehow the supervisor says it's
interfering with my government efficiency and I can't do
the job, well, that's something that the employer will
never really be able to -- the employee will never be
able to negate.  And that is set forth in our reply
brief at page 16.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, I guess you begin
with the proposition that the government must always
have a reason for what it does?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. KATYAL:  The government must always have
a reason when it discriminates against individuals.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, discrimination, when
you say "discrimination," I take it you're meaning
discrimination not confined to the discrete categories
of racial, age, et cetera.  You're talking about
discrimination for any purpose.
            And therefore, it seems to me that when you
say the government cannot discriminate, I think, in
effect, you're saying a government supervisor cannot
fire somebody simply because he does not like that
person, because that's a discrimination in relation to
the people that the supervisor does like; is that
correct.
            MR. KATYAL:  That is -- that is correct as
long as -- as long as, Justice Souter, it is not related
to government efficiency; that is, if it's like this
case, in which --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Right.  It's not government
efficiency; I just don't want to be around this person.
            MR. KATYAL:  Exactly.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Then it is the case, then,
that if you prevail in this case, that the notion of
paradigmatic, at-will employment within the government
in any State that recognizes that now, that will, in

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

fact, be eliminated to -- to the degree that there is a
-- a class-of-one cause of action.
            MR. KATYAL:  To the contrary, Justice
Souter.  I don't think that will happen and indeed has
not happened and there is not a disagreement --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  I thought you just agreed
that it would happen in the hypothetical because as I --
and maybe I do not understand at-will employment, but I
thought the concept of at-will employment was that the
individual could be fired for a good reason, a bad
reason or no reason at all.  Somewhere in that trinity
we get Justice Breyer's hypothetical:  I don't like him.
And you're saying that won't pass muster, but it would
pass muster under an at-will employment rule.
            MR. KATYAL:  Justice Souter, as a practical
matter it won't matter -- as a practical matter it won't
make a difference.  And the reason is because an
employee can articulate, I don't like you, and it's
undermining government efficiency, in most cases -- and
particularly in at-will cases, where there isn't a
collective bargaining agreement or a State law that will
constrain the ability of the employer to even articulate
some sort of efficiency --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  No, no, no, no.  I'm not
working with this person; he is not going to affect my

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

efficiency.  He's under somebody below me but I just
don't like him.
            MR. KATYAL:  And if there isn't an
efficiency --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Right.
            MR. KATYAL:  -- and the State can't
articulate an efficiency-based rationale --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Right.
            MR. KATYAL:  -- there will be some effect on
at-will employment in those rare cases.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  So you have a national
for-clause employment system.  You can only be hired for
cause -- fired for cause.
            MR. KATYAL:  Well, except that the cause
that the equal protection mandates, the Equal Protection
clauses guarantee, is to deferential that as Justice
Breyer said, virtually any rationale will suffice if it
is --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But you're getting back to
the point the government must always have a reason for
what it does.  Can you cite me a case that says that?
            MR. KATYAL:  That the government must always
have a reason?
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Must always have a reason
for the actions it takes.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. KATYAL:  Well, I read this Court's
decision in Olech as basically mandating that as well
as -- you know, as well as its long history on a
class-of-one starting with Sioux City and Sunday Lake
and Snowden versus --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Yes, those are all tax
cases, or in Olech, 30 feet as opposed to 15 feet, where
there was a clear difference that was not -- but there
was also an allegation of an invidious motive.
            MR. KATYAL:  And here, of course, the jury
found that invidious motive.  So even if we were to --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  It's just hard for me to
get that sweeping provision out of Olech.
            MR. KATYAL:  If the Court were worried about
at-will employment, it has available to it the
possibility of requiring animus just as Justice Kennedy
-- or possibly in some --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  What happens in this
situation?  The government gives a reason for whatever
the adverse action is.  Somebody -- they give -- and
let's say a person had lower performance ratings than
another person who was retained or given promotion.
Your position is the employee can always contest that
and say that's not the real reason; that's not factually
supported; is that correct?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. KATYAL:  If -- if the government
articulates a rationale that is objectively based,
budget or something like that, yes; the plaintiff can
come back and try and rebut.  It now it does so under
the extremely deferential rational basis test, which is
why so few causes get through.  And indeed --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  How is it extremely
deferential when the employee is going to say that's not
the real reason; the real reason was simply spite and
animus and personal dislike?
            MR. KATYAL:  Because if the government can
put forth --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And that goes before the
jury.
            MR. KATYAL:  Yeah, I don't believe it goes
to the jury, Justice Alito, because under this Court's
decision in Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, summary judgment
stage will incorporate whatever the rationale basis test
or review is.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  The employee says -- look,
it seems to me, the employee says in an affidavit the
supervisor doesn't like me, and here are the 20 things
that the supervisor has done and said over the course of
the last five years to indicate personal dislike.  Then
-- then it goes to the jury.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. KATYAL:  Again as long as the employer
can articulate a reason based on government efficiency,
there is no way for that employee to rebut that.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But you're going to
have to articulate it in Federal court.  You emphasize
it's a deferential standard, it's not -- but every case
now -- every case of an employee firing, in fact every
case of employee not getting as big a raise as he
thought he was entitled, that's now a Federal case.
            MR. KATYAL:  Well, there are two problems
with that.  The first is those are already Federal cases
under existing laws, Title VII, the panoply of other
laws.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But Title VII,
there's no --you know, there is no, "because you don't
like me," it's not because I'm a particular race or --
            MR. KATYAL:  But if we're positing a
frequent filer plaintiff who's bent on trying to file a
lawsuit, they can always make a Title VII.  They can say
you're firing me because of --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm not worried
about a frequent filer.  I'm worried about 40 million
single filers.
            MR. KATYAL:  And -- and the empirical
evidence, Justice -- Mr. Chief Justice, is that that

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

doesn't happen.  You know, we've had this cause of
action now for 26 and 27 years in two circuits.  It's
now the law of the land in nine circuits; we haven't had
that entire flood, nor have we had the harm to at-will
employment.  And the reason is that plaintiffs aren't
going to bring these causes of action when they know
they are so hard to win.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't know if that's --
that's why I started this.  I read through, at least
briefly, the circuit cases in this area.  I was trying
to figure it out.  And it seemed to me that those
circuit cases just really are finding some reason to
dismiss the employee's claim, that they are not taking
this seriously, that is -- I mean, I don't want to
criticize them because I don't know the facts of the
case; but I couldn't figure out a standard.
            And then I thought, well, the standard has
to be the APA standard, and if it's -- I know that
standard.  And the reason that you don't have a million
cases under that standard is because States have civil
service systems.
            MR. KATYAL:  The existing --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  So it seemed to me that's
the standard you want to apply.  You want to bring all
those cases into Federal court, and I'm not sure they

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

are doing it now, really, in practice.  Now what's wrong
with what I've just said?
            MR. KATYAL:  Well, I don't think there is
anything quite wrong with that.  I would say two things:
One, the existence of all of those State remedies and so
on are far more attractive for the employment plaintiff
than this cause of action.  And so, that's one reason
why you see these low numbers.
            Second is I don't quite agree with you that
the lower courts are, you know, maybe not taking it
seriously or however.  They have a long-established body
of law now on how to dismiss these cases on 12(b)(6)
motions, and the majority of the circuits have already
upheld that because of the similarly situated
requirements and intentionality requirements, as well as
on summary judgment; that is, because the test is so
deferential.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Let's take this case.
You say there were 30 similarly situated people with
regard to this employee being let go.  Wouldn't that be
a contested matter?  The employer will say they are not
similarly situated; each of them is differently
situated.  How does that get resolved on summary
judgment?
            MR. KATYAL:  Well, normally it depends on

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the rationale that's being offered.  Here the
government's rationale was declining wheat revenues, and
so each of the employees who was paid out of those wheat
revenues is similarly situated.  The government in this
case disclaimed the other rationales, performance and so
on.  In the ordinary case --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought they withdrew
from saying that it was a budgetary matter.
            MR. KATYAL:  Well, there were two different
budgetary issues.  One was the budget having to do with
the Oregon State budget, and that was ultimately
withdrawn by the State.  The other was that Ms. Engquist
and 10 other or so employees were being paid out of
wheat revenues, and the State's rationale at trial was
that the wheat market was collapsing, and so they
couldn't pay for Ms. Engquist anymore.  And she was --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Suppose the government --
suppose the government comes in and says, we don't want
to take a position as to -- as to what the reason was;
it could have been any one of the following seven -- you
know, the wheat market collapsed; she came in late five
days; some of the jobs she did she didn't do well; she
dressed inappropriately on the job; her co-workers
didn't like they are -- you know.  And -- can the
government do that?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. KATYAL:  The government can offer those.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  How far -- does it have to
pick a reason?  You're --  you're --
            MR. KATYAL:  Absolutely not.  It can pick
many reasons.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  So long as there is
conceivable reason, the court would grant summary
judgment?

            MR. KATYAL:  We think that's right.  Now,
there are --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought you did not
agree with that in your brief.  I thought --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's what I thought, too.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- you said no
hypothetical justification is there.  Not like
legislation where any conceivable basis, even if the
legislature didn't conceive it.  I thought you were
quite clear in saying no, that's not what rational basis
means in this context.
            MR. KATYAL:  I might have misunderstood
Justice Scalia's question.  I thought he was saying does
the government -- can the government put forth a
conceivable rationale grounded in some fact, and the
answer to that is yes.  It's got to be grounded in fact.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

That is the test.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  All those facts are true
facts, but the government isn't claiming that any one of
them was the reason.  It just says here are the
conceivable reasons why -- why she might have been
fired.  We really don't know which one it was.
            MR. KATYAL:  The plaintiffs --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But here are seven
perfectly conceivable reasons.
            MR. KATYAL:  The government has the ability
to put that forth and the plaintiff has the ability to
negate that.  That is the rational-basis test under
this.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What do you mean, to negate
it?  To negate it as the actual reason is what you mean.
            MR. KATYAL:  As -- to negate the facts.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But the government is not
purporting that -- to say that it's the actual reason.
            MR. KATYAL:  Justice --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  The government is saying
had she been dismissed for this reason, and we really
don't know whether that was the reason or not, but had
she been dismissed for this reason it would have been
rational.
            MR. KATYAL:  So long as, Justice Scalia,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that rationale is itself grounded in the facts.  That
is, you can't come in and say she wasn't -- she was
coming to work late when she wasn't.  But if she were,
then --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, I didn't understand
your position to be that, but that -- -
            MR. KATYAL:  The test here is -- the test
I'm trying to offer is one of objective -- objective --
whether the rationale is objectively falsifiable.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Can I ask you
more -- perhaps a more abstract question about this
class-of-one?
            Doesn't that have the effect of adding an
equal protection claim to every violation of law?  In
other words, you have a Fourth Amendment search and
seizure claim, and you're treated illegally; you say
well, everybody else was treated legally and I wasn't,
so it's an equal protection violation?  You get -- you
know, the zoning ordinance, it was improper under the
zoning law, and because everybody else was properly
treated, it's a violation of equal protection.
            MR. KATYAL:  That is a problem, I think,
under this Court's decision in Olech generally.  It
affects class-of-one --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do you think Olech was

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

wrongly decided?
            MR. KATYAL:  I do not.  I think this Court
has had a long history on --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I don't find anything in
Olech that says that every action that does not have a
reason is constitutionally infirm.
            MR. KATYAL:  Let me go back, Justice
Kennedy, to answer your question more directly.  This
Court has held in the employment case -- in the
employment context, that the government must have a
rational basis.  It said so in Harrah v. Martin, Beazer
and Murgia, all of which say that when an employer is
dismissing employees, it must act with a rational basis.
So this Court has already crossed that --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  All of those involved a
group characteristic.  One involved people -- Beazer,
wasn't it was methadone users?  But none of them
involved a situation like this, where she is not
claiming anything about being a member of any
identifiable class.  She is just saying, they
discriminated against me -- not because of sex, race or
anything else.  They were out to get me.
            MR. KATYAL:  Justice Ginsburg, I don't quite
think that describes the fact of Harrah v. Martin in
which it was a challenge to an individual termination

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

decision by the school board.  But I do agree the other
cases are group-based characteristics.  We don't think
that makes a difference, and indeed we think that the
Solicitor General's test on this would be unworkable in
practice, because everyone can assert their membership
in some objective --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No, but you could -- you
could take sentiment -- I thought you could break the
cases, for the most part, into two parts; one, what
Justice Ginsburg said, and that's where the real reason
is some kind of general characteristic, of a disfavored
group.  The second is the instance where the -- where
the body that's acting is a body whose business it is to
classify.  That's zoning, taxation, and it means really
classifying in fact, not some theoretical thing where
you say, oh, well, they're classifying it employment
because they put you in the class of such and such.  But
those two seem to me to handle the bulk of the cases,
which, if I'm right about that, would leave your client
out in the cold.  So I assume you'll tell me why I'm not
right.
            MR. KATYAL:  Well, I will try.  So the first
thing is that -- I don't quite think that describes the
facts of Harrah versus Martin, which is an individual
decision.  And, secondly, once you start going down the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

line of objective, group-based characteristics and the
like, it is infinitely manipulable, and that's why the
Ninth Circuit decisions after, in the wake of this
decision below, are dismissing group-based claims on --
on disability and age and the like.  Everyone can
replead their claim as part of a group, that is, Ms. --
you know, Ms. Engquist can say she's part of a group of
two, those who complained about their supervisors and up
the chain of command.
            And so the problem is it becomes unworkable
in practice.  And, of course, the Constitution, Justice
Ginsburg, doesn't say, the way the Solicitor General
would like it be, doesn't say no State shall deny equal
protection of the law to anyone who is a member of an
objective group-based, you know, group and class.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But you brought up -- you
said this is 1983.  It's a cause of action provided by
Congress.  So that's why this is something State and
municipal employees can do, but no Federal employee
could do.  1985 also uses the word "person or class of
persons," and yet this Court held that 1985(3), that
claim, it has to be some group-based animus, not malice
directed toward a particular individual.
            MR. KATYAL:  I don't quite think that -- I
think the Court has already dealt with that in Olech by

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

affirming, essentially, a 1983 cause of action based on
an individual person's claim.  And so -- and so that is
the relevant precedent here, not the section 1985
precedents.
            Now, if we --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, maybe because
1985(3) is in a discrimination context, The Court could
say 1983 -- we know the classification to which Justice
Breyer was referring, tax classifications, zoning
classifications, but this group of claims we're cutting
out.
            MR. KATYAL:  But the statutory test -- text,
Justice Ginsburg, is the same.  There's one section 19
--
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it's a -- it's a
general statute.  It's not a precise statute like Title
VII or the Age Discrimination Act.  So it's the kind of
legislation that seems much more amenable to court
interpretation.
            MR. KATYAL:  I would agree with that.  I
think it might open a whole can of worms were the Court
to say that 1983 requires some group-based
discrimination outside of this particular context that
we are talking about.  And so I think --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, it certainly opens

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

a can of worms to say that you take every claim against
the government, every claim of wrongdoing by the
government, and make it an equal protection claim
because you say other people were treated properly and I
was treated improperly; therefore, I have an equal
protection claim.
            MR. KATYAL:  Except, Justice Ginsburg, we've
had this cause of action now for 26 and 27 years in two
circuits; we have it in nine.  We haven't seen the
effect on at-will employment nor, more generally, on the
Equal Protection Clause opening up that can of worms
that you're hypothesizing.
            I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.
Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Mr. Katyal.
            Ms. Metcalf.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF JANET A. METCALF
                ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
            MS. METCALF:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            The Ninth Circuit decision in this case is
consistent with this Court's recognition, in other
constitutional contexts, that Federal court is simply
not the forum in which to second-guess everyday

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

decisions made by public employers.  It's also
consistent with this Court's recognition, again in other
constitutional contexts, that the rights of public
employees simply are not as expansive in a number of
ways as those of citizens generally vis-a-vis their
public employers.
            We think that both of those lines of cases
come at least in part out of the recognition that public
employment decisions, indeed employment decisions
generally, are highly subjective in nature and highly
individualistic in nature.
            We think really that the Ninth Circuit here
has gone no farther than to apply those concepts as a
specific context of class-of-one cases brought in the
public employment context.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The Ninth Circuit
decision would rule out the case where an employee says:
I was the most qualified person for this position by
far, but the supervisors took a bribe from a rich uncle
to promote somebody else.
            MS. METCALF:  Yes.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  That would be out?
            MS. METCALF:  That would be out as an equal
protection claim.  There undoubtedly would be other
avenues, potential other avenues, where --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The scapegoat case, too,
would be out?
            MS. METCALF:  Yes.  Yes, it would.  It would
under this rationale --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why -- but we have said
that -- that there is a constitutional claim if the
reason the person was not hired is that the person did
not belong to the political party that the -- that the
hiring person belonged to, the current administration.
            MS. METCALF:  And --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You said you can't turn
down somebody just because she's a Democrat or a
Republican.
            MS. METCALF:  That's correct.  And our
formulation I think, of the test, Your Honor, is that
there should be no such thing as a class-of-one equal
protection claim in the public employment context, with
certain exceptions, those exceptions including, for
example, exercising a fundamental right; membership in a
suspect class; perhaps certain other criteria, such as
the one you mentioned, certain other classifications.
But that as -- as a general matter, the broad question
that the Ninth Circuit faced, is there, outside of those
exceptions, is there such a thing as a class-of-one
public employment?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Let me ask, following up
on Justice Ginsburg's question:  Suppose it's not a
class-of-one, but it's a class of two or three because,
on two or three occasions they fired somebody because he
wouldn't pay the supervisor a bribe.  Would that cross
the threshold?  He had a practice of not -- you know,
getting a little money out of every promotion.
            MS. METCALF:  No, no, Justice Stevens, and
again to be clear --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  If it's not a class of one
--
            MS. METCALF:  I keep throwing up --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Do you say no or yes to
whether there would be a cause of action?
            MS. METCALF:  No.  Because -- and this is
why I keep using quotes for "class-of-one."
"Class-of-one" doesn't literally describe the number of
plaintiffs, both because in some cases there might be a
single plaintiff, but they're alleging discrimination
based on membership in a class.  And because -- and
Olech is an example -- as the Court pointed out in a
footnote in Olech, Olech could have been described as a
class of five.
            But, again, we're talking about
discrimination allegedly based on something other than

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the exceptions that this Court has recognized:  Exercise
of a fundamental right, membership in a --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, but, as your
friend points out, the constitutional provision says
"any person."  It doesn't say any person who is a member
of a particular class or any person who is exercising a
fundamental right.  It's "any person."
            MS. METCALF:  Admittedly, Chief Justice
Roberts.  And I certainly don't think the constitutional
text does us any affirmative good, but I don't think it
goes as far as Petitioner would have it go.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do you think Olech was
correctly decided?
            MS. METCALF:  Yes, yes.  We take no issue
with Olech.  We --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And public employment is
different just because it's going to be a big problem?
What --
            MS. METCALF:  Not because it's going to be a
big problem, but because the regulatory context is
significantly different, we think, than the employment
context.  Part of that is the inherently subjective
nature of employment decisions.  Regulatory decisions
are made at arm's length; they are made under relatively
--

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, but we're presuming
that there is an objective reason for promoting or
retaining -- the person has a college degree and so
forth -- but that that person is rejected anyway because
of dislike.
            MS. METCALF:  But -- but again --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  That's the hypothetical.
Why is that hypothetical case different than Olech?
            MS. METCALF:  You might have an unusual
employment case in which an employer has drawn up a list
of objective criteria.  That's not this case.  That's
not the average case.  In the average case you might,
for example, prefer that someone have a degree, but --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But then we say that there
is a subset of unusual cases where we will allow the
cause of action?
            MS. METCALF:  No.  We offer the subjective
nature as a general reason why simply class-of-one
analysis should not apply in this context, period,
because the average -- whereas the average in the
regulatory context probably is a high degree of
objectivity, the average in the employment context is a
relatively high degree of subjectivity and discretion.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  But there are areas outside
of employment where there's a lot of discretion.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Suppose someone claims that he has repeatedly gotten
speeding tickets for going five miles over the speed
limit by a local police department because of some sort
of personal feud with the chief of police.  That I take
it would be a valid claim under Olech because it's
outside his employment?
            MS. METCALF:  Because it's regulatory and
enforcing, law enforcement.  I think so.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'm having trouble hearing
both the question and the answer.
            MS. METCALF:  As I understand -- I don't
know if you want me to try to restate the question or if
you want to do it.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, the question was:
Don't you run into the same problem of discretion
outside of the employment context?  For example, a
police officer who is alleged to have given someone a
ticket or a number of tickets simply because of personal
malice as opposed to some sort of uniform policy.
            MS. METCALF:  But, again, there I think the
-- hopefully, the norm in law enforcement is a
relatively objective standard.  Are you in fact
speeding?  Are you in fact breaking the traffic laws?
Are you in fact breaking the law in some other way?
Whereas the norm in employment decisions is a much more

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

discretionary, subjective kind of decision.  Yes, I may
have certain criteria that I would prefer a manager
have, but then I'm still going to have to weigh the
qualifications and experience of various candidates and
ultimately make a relatively subjective decision about
who I think is the best candidate for that, for that
job.  Which is why we think the regulatory context and
the employment context are significantly different.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Yes, but those are all
considerations that would be an adequate defense to a
claim.  If you had a judgment call to make, you say, I
had a judgment call to make.  And maybe there are good
arguments on the other side.  You can't be liable for
that kind of decision.
            MS. METCALF:  Well -- and certainly I'm
somewhat perhaps surprised by Petitioner's argument
today because I understand Petitioner's argument to
almost concede the point that summary judgment should
have been given to the -- to the State's defendants in
this case because in fact, with regard to each of the
three employment decisions that are at issue in this
case, the State and the defendants did proffer and --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But we are concerned about
the case -- let's just assume, just take it as a
hypothetical case -- where there is an arbitrary and

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

vindictive reason for hiring the employee and it has
nothing to do with race, sex, or other recognized
suspect or improper categories.  And I thought your
answer to me was, well, I might make an exception to
that.
            MS. METCALF:  No.  My answer to you is as
long -- well, my answer to you is twofold.  If we're
simply considering whether, in fact, there could be such
a thing as a class-of-one case in the employment
context, our answer is no.  If we're past that and the
issue is what's the test to apply, our test is as long
as there is any conceivable rational basis for the
action that the government employer took, the case
should be at end; it should not go to the jury.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, isn't that an
odd system?  I mean, you have -- like our time card
example, you're going to have litigation over whether
she was late for work or was not late for work, and in
fact that's got nothing to do with the reasons she was
fired at all.  And yet the government puts it out, well,
this is a conceivable reason, and then the other side
says, no, it's not, and they fight.  It just seems so
otherworldly; it has nothing to do with the reason at
all.
            MS. METCALF:  Well, the -- often the real

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

reason -- and this Court has made this observation in
particular in legislative contexts.  But often the real
reason is not necessarily apparent or undisputed, and
beyond that, that's simply the test that this Court has
employed as a general matter in rational-basis
equal-protection cases.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but that's
with respect to legislative or regulatory action, where
there are important reasons not to inquire into the
motives of the legislators.  It's not clear to me that
that same rationale applies here.
            MS. METCALF:  Well, two points, Your Honor.
I would certainly agree that the Court has most often,
if not always, said that in the legislative context.
But Petitioner is not really arguing for a different
test here.  As I understand Petitioner's argument, and
perhaps I misunderstand it, but Petitioner's argument is
that this Court should apply customary rational-basis
analysis and apply such analysis as long as the
government has some conceivable rational basis that --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  That's not -- you know
that that's not the position they took in their brief.
They said it's not a hypothetical, any conceivable.
They said that by qualifying -- even in the at-will
category, the government has to articulate a reason

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

rooted in the facts of this case, not a hypothetical.  A
hypothetical reason is not good enough.
            MS. METCALF:  Agreed, Justice Ginsburg.  If
-- we don't agree that that would be the test.  We think
that the Court should stick to the customary
rational-basis test as it's applied in other contexts,
and say if there is any conceivable rational basis, that
even if --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  It seems to me that you
want us to write an opinion that says there are some
instances where the government can act arbitrarily and
unreasonably.
            MS. METCALF:  We would ask you to write an
opinion, Justice Kennedy, that says that, within the
public employment context, there are no class-of-one
equal protection claims.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, you think the answer
is yes, I mean, because --
            MS. METCALF:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- because the
Administrative Procedures Act forbids arbitrary,
capricious action.  So you're saying the Constitution --
            MS. METCALF:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- does not
constitutionalize all --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MS. METCALF:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- arbitrary, capricious
behavior --
            MS. METCALF:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- of the Federal
Government --
            MS. METCALF:  And there --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- or the State government.
            MS. METCALF:  There will and probably are
going to be other remedies, but not a Fourteenth
Amendment remedy.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.
            MS. METCALF:  Absolutely.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  So the answer is yes.
Okay.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And that's because of
existence of other avenues of redress.
            MS. METCALF:  Not solely.  That, I think, is
a factor.  It's because of, again, this Court's
recognition in other contexts that public employees
simply are not on the same footing as private citizens
generally with regard to their employers, and that
Federal court is simply not the appropriate forum in
which to review the day-to-day decisionmaking of public
employers; and because of recognition of the inherently

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

subjective nature of public employment decisions.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I understood that the
argument --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- your opponent's
statement that this really has not generated an awful
lot of litigation.  Do you think he's right or wrong on
that?
            MS. METCALF:  I think so far as anyone can
determine, he's right to date.  Obviously, we have some
real concern that if this Court were to say that there
were such a cause of action, that things might change.
Beyond that, I think the relatively few number of cases,
and in particular the very, very small to-date number of
successful cases is an argument against extending
class-of-one equal protection analysis into this
context, because there will be an adverse effect on
public employer discretion if the Court were to extend
the analysis.  Public employers would have to worry
about what happened in this case, that their decisions
are subject to later second-guessing in Federal court.
It may well chill the exercise of public employer
discretion.  And I think the most common complaint about
public employer discretion, it is that it's
underutilized not overutilized, and there would be a
real danger that for the price of a very few successful

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

cases you would chill the exercise of public employer
discretion.
            So, we actually think that that point is an
argument against the extension, not for it.  But I would
agree that we can't point to any enormous flood of cases
to date.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  In Oregon, is -- would
there be a civil service remedy available to someone in
this situation?
            MS. METCALF:  There would be admittedly very
limited remedies under the civil service laws, per se.
The decision about whether to advance her as a manager,
of who would pick her as a manager was one really solely
within the employer's discretion.  With respect to the
decisions about the layoff and the bumping into someone
else's position, she had essentially what were
procedural remedies under her collective bargaining
agreement, which -- which the union would have had to
assert on her behalf.  If the union had failed to do so
and she had thought the union erred in doing so, she
could have filed an action against them.
            She did have a common-law State-law claim in
this case, which she brought, one for intentional
interference with her employment relationship, which she
was successful in both in the district court and which

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

we did not challenge in the Ninth Circuit.  So that
State-law claim is certainly still a viable claim --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But as far as the Federal
law claim is concerned, you'd urge us to come out the
same way, even if this case came up before the
Administrative Procedure Act was passed, right?
            MS. METCALF:  Yes.  Yes, we would.
Although, again, that provides yet an additional remedy
to --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The Administrative
Procedure Act doesn't apply to State -- to State
procedures.  It's a Federal act --
            MS. METCALF:  Right.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- governing Federal
agencies.
            MS. METCALF:  Right.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But as to Federal
employment, you'd say the same?
            MS. METCALF:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And you'd say the same as
if there were no State remedies for --
            MS. METCALF:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- employment
discrimination by the State.
            MS. METCALF:  Yes, we would.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Because the State has a
right to employ at will?
            MS. METCALF:  Yes, subject to whatever
limitations there may be and other affirmative sources
of law such as a collective bargaining agreement or some
other State or Federal statutory remedy.  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What exactly is the
analytic basis of that?  I mean, do you think that --
you don't think the Equal Protection Clause applies at
all to this situation where it's just a class of one?
Or do you think that the clause is always -- the claim
of violation under the clause is always rebutted
automatically?  What is the --
            MS. METCALF:  The former -- the former
within the context of public employment.  We certainly
again are not -- not taking issue with Olech.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But what authority do you
have for us to parse different governmental actions and
say some are subject to the Equal Protection Clause and
some are not?
            MS. METCALF:  Well, again I don't know --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Other than the convenience
of the government -- it might be more efficient for the
government -- you want us to say that the government can
act arbitrarily with respect to employees?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MS. METCALF:  And, again, I don't know that
the Federal Government discusses peremptory challenges,
and I'll leave that to them.  But, again, stepping
outside the Fourteenth Amendment context for a moment,
this Court certainly and without explicit textual
support has recognized the existence, for example, of
the First Amendment rights of public employees
vis-a-vis --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Oh, but that's very
different, because those cases say that those
individuals have no First Amendment rights.  In other
words, in the public employee context, talking about
their official obligations, there is no First Amendment
right to do that.  I think it's quite a different
situation to say there is no equal protection right in
government employment.
            MS. METCALF:  But -- but -- maybe I
shouldn't say again.  Your Honor, I think that what we
are asking for in this case is the same sort of line
drawing outside textual, atextual line drawing that this
Court has done in other contexts such as the First
Amendment context, where it has said that government
simply can impose obligations, restrictions on its
public employees that it could not on citizens generally
and --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why can't you simply say
that they are not being denied equal protection of the
law?  The law that applies to her and to everybody else
employed by the government is that the employment is at
will?
            MS. METCALF:  And --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's certainly an equal
protection.  She could be fired at will and everybody
else can be fired at will.
            MS. METCALF:  Agreed.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why isn't that equal
protection of the law?
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Except this wasn't --
this wasn't employment at will, right?
            MS. METCALF:  Not precisely.  But the
decision whether or not to promote effective or not
might have been at will in the sense that was a decision
subject solely to the discretion of the employer.  So,
in a sense, it's analogous.  I wouldn't say that it is
precisely at will with respect to any of these
decisions.  And, again, because she had only limited
rights under the collective bargaining agreement,
outside of those limited rights the employer really had
full discretion as to what decision it would make.  So,
again, I think there is an analogy to at will.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE STEVENS:  What proportion of your
workforce is really hired at will?  Haven't they all got
some kind of protections under your statutes?
            MS. METCALF:  As a matter of fact, none of
the assistant attorneys general, including me, have any
protection.  Most -- most State employees have some kind
of collective -- I'm arguing against myself in this case
-- most employees in the State of Oregon have some kind
of collective bargaining protection.  So at will is the
exception, not the rule.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Don't have you some kind
of civil service system, too?
            MS. METCALF:  Not precisely.  It's much more
a matter of collective bargaining, but it amounts to
much the same thing in the end.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  So that implies people who
are employed at will are the exception rather than the
rule?
            MS. METCALF:  Absolutely.  And I would
readily concede that fact.
            If the Court gets to the second part of the
case and the question becomes what sort of test,
assuming that the Court finds a class-of-one analysis
should apply in this context and the question becomes:
What's the test?  Really, all the State is asking for

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

here is an application of the customary, rational-basis
test in which if any conceivable rational basis can be
offered by the government, the case should be at an end.
            That position was raised below by the State
defendants, who raised the point both in their summary
judgment motion and in their trial memo and urged the
district court to take this case away from the jury on
that basis, and the district court refused to do so.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  What do you say to the
argument that the conceivable-basis test is appropriate
when we are judging legislation, because we don't know
what goes through the minds of individual legislators.
Whereas, these kinds of decisions, employment decisions,
are, in fact, very specific state-of-mind kind of
decisions; and, therefore, the equal-protection standard
ought to take that into consideration and look to the
specific reasons?
            MS. METCALF:  I think the difference is not
that great.  I think, admittedly, the actual rationale
is harder to discern in legislative cases, in part,
because you have so many decisionmakers.
            But here, for example, it is similar because
the decisionmakers might have had a number, and probably
did have a number, of elements in mind from dislike to a
preference for a certain kind of background.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            Thank you.
       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Ms. Metcalf.
            Ms. Blatt.
               ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT
                 ON BEHALF OF UNITED STATES,
                     AS AMICUS CURIAE,
               SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
            MS. BLATT:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            There are two types of class-of-one claims
that should not be recognized in the public-employment
context.
            The first is a claim of residual ill will or
bad-motive complicitor, and the second is a simple
demand for a rational basis for an adverse personnel
decision.
            The problem with those claims is that they
would constitutionalize routine employee grievances and
impose a for-cause requirement on public employers,
notwithstanding the long tradition of at-will public
employment.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Ma'am, the reason that we
didn't say that same thing in Oleck is because in the
taxation area or the easement area we simply don't have
the great number of cases and also because animus is

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

more easily established.
            MS. BLATT:  It is similar.  And in the
regulatory context a personality conflict is not a
legitimate basis for adversely treating citizens.  But a
personality conflict between a supervisor and a
subordinate is generally, if not always, a legitimate
basis for adversely treating an employee.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, I wondered if I was
right, you know; that I thought that maybe, looking
back, that there is something about zoning and taxation
where it normally is alleged that it's rule-making
activity.
            And that perhaps you would apply all of
these things you are talking about where what the --
even if it is employment, where what the employer is
doing, or anyone else is doing, is creating rules, is
classifying.  And not a made-up classification like you
put me and one other fired person in the fired- person
category.  I don't mean that.  I mean like taxation and
zoning and legislation.  Is there anything to that?
            MS. BLATT:  There is some support in the
case law, but what I think your concurring opinion was
trying to do was to help local and State governments.
And it is one thing to say the mayor denied my building
permit, and I'm going to make the employee allege

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

animus, and that might be difficult to do.  But for
someone on the mayor's staff, it's not that difficult to
allege animus on the part of your supervisor.
            Employment frictions are inherent in the
workplace, and perceptions of unfair treatment readily
arise by an employee who thinks he or she was unfairly
treated.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I agree with
all of that, but -- so the Equal Protection Clause
doesn't apply?
            MR. BLATT:  Sure, it applies.  It just
doesn't give you a right to collect what this plaintiff
did:  Punitive and compensatory damages based on
residual ill will.
            She ran an equal-protection claim on race,
gender, national origin, sex.  She had a statutory claim
for imposing unlawful conduct under Title VII.  The jury
rejected all of that and imposed punitive damages, and
it went to the jury on a legal question that has always
been decided by this Court and the courts about whether
there was a rational basis or whether, instead, it was
solely based on vindictive, arbitrary, or malicious
reasons.  It went to the jury, and there was no
allegation that --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So you think the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Equal Protection Clause applies --
            MS. BLATT:  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- in any case of
public employment -- what -- that's satisfied?
            MS. BLATT:  It doesn't -- no.  If you have a
membership in an identifiable group classification as
opposed to purely subjective and individualized
criteria.  Here the class was:  I was a thorn in my
supervisor's side.  That is not a class.  And if it is a
class, it would lose, because you would always have a
rational basis.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But the Equal
Protection Clause doesn't balk about classes.  It talks
about any person.
            MS. BLATT:  That's correct, and -- and in
First Amendment -- and that's a different amendment, but
in the Fourteenth Amendment there is the Batson context.
It's just -- just like in the Batson context, the high
cost of litigating every single claim to try to ferret
out what would truly be an irrational decision is not
worth the cost when there is such an overwhelming
likelihood that a truly irrational decision would
already be prohibited by some other contract or
statutory source.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It doesn't talk about equal

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

protection, actually, it talks about equal protection
the law; and if -- if the law in the government
employment context is that you can be dismissed at will,
or for a number of reasons, so long as everybody is
subject to that same law, it would seem to be no
discrimination in the law?
            MS. BLATT:  Well, we are not relying on the
text of the Equal Protection Clause.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Oh, don't rely on the text,
certainly.
            (Laughter.)
            MS. BLATT:  What we are relying on are two
principles.  And there is just a longstanding principle
that the Constitution is not the appropriate forum to
resolve routine employment disputes.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  When you do that with the
two cases that I raised with Miss Metcalf?  That is, the
bribe case and the scapegoat case, they are out, too.
If public employment is taken out from this
class-of-one, those two cases would go as well.
            MS. BLATT:  Right, well, one is criminal
conduct, and on the scapegoat case I actually don't
think that's such a bad thing.  One can recharacterize
scapegoating as public accountability, and their side
would allow Federal courts and State courts to

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

second-guess a local employment's response to a public
crisis.  So if there is a school board or some tragic
accident in the city, and a group of employees are
fired, their side would give constitutional claim for
punitive and compensatory damages based on a finding of
ill will; and although the other side comes up here and
tells a story about traditional rational basis, in this
case it was submitted to the jury, about whether there
was a rational basis or whether whatever articulated
basis was a mere pretext; it was treated basically like
a sex, or gender, a race claim, and not a rational basis
claim.  This should have never gone to the jury.  It's
not a fact question whether there is a rational basis.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Can we -- can we meet your
objection --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  In a mixed motives case,
both ill will and a -- some reason, she was also late to
work -- you would win that case.
            MS. BLATT:  Well --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  If you have one good
reason and one bad reason, the bad reason doesn't trump
the good reason.
            MS. BLATT:  That's right.  In a mixed-motive
constitutional case involving a fundamental right, it's
a fact question for the jury.  In a rational basis case

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

it would be a question for the court whether there is a
conceivable rational basis.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But a public employee
applies for a 30-foot easement that he is entitled to,
and doesn't receive it; and the mayor says and by the
way I don't like you, so you're fired:  A, you don't get
the easement, B, you're fired.  Why -- why do we treat
the cases differently?  Other than the floodgate
argument etcetera?
            MS. BLATT:  Well, if the mayor doesn't give
the employee a grievance, in her capacity as a citizen
she has a suit under Olech; but in her termination
claim, she -- unless she can allege membership in an
identifiable class, she doesn't have an equal protection
right to be free from just pure arbitrariness -- -
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But that just states your
conclusion.  I want to know why this is.
            MS. BLATT:  Why?  Because personality
conflicts have no role in the regulatory context and
they generally if not always are the legitimate basis
for a personnel decision.  It's just that -- they say
this example, well, employer doesn't like you; that's
sufficient; but the other side never tells you how far
they would take that.  Is it because the conflict arose
in the workplace; is it because it arose from their

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

neighborhood; is it because it arose from the high
school debate team or law review or cheerleading squad
and that's why the person wasn't hired?  And we would
have courts having just to go, judge by judge and court,
and in their case, jury by jury, for these kinds of
decisions; and these shouldn't be constitutional cases.
These are more properly resolved under merit service
protection laws and collective bargaining agreements.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Would it meet your concern
if we held number one, yes, there may be a class of
claim in the public employment context, but any reason
that would be a lawful reason for discharge under the
at-will rule is a -- a reason that would satisfy the
test; and therefore it would be the real outlier that
would ever get to the jury?
            MS. BLATT:  Well, in the at-will context, if
an employer says you're fired and gives no reason,
that's legitimate; but in their case at least by the
time a lawyer is hired and the case goes to court, the
State is having -- has to articulate a basis that could
be second-guessed.  If you write -- if you are going to
apply class-of-one and write a very broad opinion saying
almost anything goes in the employment context, that's
certainly preferable than having us go to juries based
on pretext and bad motive, which is what happened in

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

this case.
            But I still think it would impose a
for-cause requirement that's inconsistent with your due
process cases, which presuppose that the personnel
entitlement must spring from someplace other than the
Constitution.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, let me ask you this.
I mean, I wasn't trying a trick question but I -- let me
be explicit about this.  If we adopted the rule that
said anything that goes under the at-will rule goes
under equal protection class of one, would there be
anything left?
            MS. BLATT:  No.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  So the reason is, if
we opted that rule you'd win across the board.
            MS. BLATT:  Yes.  Yes.  Unless you leave --
right.  There is not point.  I mean the at-will rule is
that no reason be given, or it could be a bad reason.
And if there is any concern about the line drawing, I
would urge you just to look at the verdict form in this
case.  All that was submitted to the jury, after there
was the rejection of the national origin, the gender,
the race, the color, the retaliation for reporting
sexual harassment, was just a simple case of without any
rational basis, and solely for arbitrary, vindictive or

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

malicious reasons.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  So we should cite there is
no constitutional right to be a policeman?  We can
revise that?
            MS. BLATT:  Well, no.  I mean, there are
lots of constitutional limits on public employment.
What we are talking about is where you've reduced at
will for a null set, and there is any claim for
arbitrary conduct.  I mean, we would allow under our
theory any claim that is not just a residual ill will or
bad motive states a valid equal protection case.  And
this is many, many statutory protections as well.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Ms. Blatt.
            Mr. Katyal, you have four minutes remaining.
              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KATYAL
                ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
            MR. KATYAL:  The Ninth Circuit in this case,
Your Honor, has cut out all claims conceivable or
otherwise, and that is contrary to the text of the Equal
Protection Clause in this Court's precedent.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Do you agree with me that
if we adopted a rule that says that anything that goes
for at-will employment goes for one-person-class equal
protection, and that that in effect would eliminate any

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

cause of action?
            MR. KATYAL:  It would, Justice Souter, under
the formal rule; that is, no reason alone is sufficient.
That of course as a practical matter is not the way
at-will works anymore, because of the panoply of rules,
Title 7 and otherwise that force employers to articulate
rationales when they terminate at-will employees.  So as
a practical matter the no-reason firing doesn't exist
anymore because those employees, those at-will employees
who are going to sue are going to sue anyway.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  You keep stressing the text
of the Equal Protection Clause.  Don't you think it's
late in the day to be arguing that Equal Protection
Clause should be read with that kind of literalness?
            MR. KATYAL:  No.  This Court has
consistently held that the text of the Equal Protection
Clause encompasses personal claims.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  It talks about laws, but it
extends to situations where what's being -- the unequal
treatment is not stemming from the law, but from
executive or administrative action.
            MR. KATYAL:  That's quite right, Justice
Alito.  And in fact since 1879 this Court has said --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And in the other example,
are there not situations where it's been held to apply

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that might not fall within the literal language of the
clause?
            MR. KATYAL:  I'm not sure I got that down,
sir.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  You think in all other
respects it's read literally?
            MR. KATYAL:  I'm not sure if in all other
respects it is, but with respect to the relevant
questions here -- that is, does this clause apply to
individual agency actions, this Court has held so in
1879 in Missouri versus Lewis, and has held so
consistently ever since.
            So in this case the government put forth one
rationale which was an objective one, we -- and
disclaimed all the others, the subjective ones; and we
do think that that subjective rationales in employment
is different, and would almost always be a rational
basis.  In this case they disclaimed all those other
ones.
            So here the government is using its power,
its raw power, surely for its own personal ends and that
is contrary to the whole notion of why employment should
be different within government efficiency.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What is your answer
to their Batson analogy?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. KATYAL:  Batson I think supports exactly
what we are saying, which is this Court has said we
don't review on rational basis, actions by a prosecutor
that are motivated, strikes that are motivated by the
trial, that are -- that are for a good trial; but if the
rationale of the prosecutor is I don't like the disabled
person, or I don't like --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, but you're
adding the class aspect.  If the rationale of the
prosecutor is, I don't like this person, under Batson
you don't get to bring an equal protection challenge to
that.
            MR. KATYAL:  I don't quite think that this
Court has confronted that specific issue about whether
it's an individual class-of one juror case.  But the
language of Batson says that we don't --  that this
Court won't review on rational basis a claim when it's
related to the government's motivation.  They are to
have a fair trial, a good trial.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought if you have a
peremptory challenge it means that you can't challenge
on any basis other than the group -- the groups that
Batson has recognized.  You - you said you could
challenge a peremptory, exercise a peremptory challenge
if it's unrelated to the selection of an impartial jury.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

58

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            Well, I thought that a peremptory, outside
of the class cases, is matter of the prosecutor or the
defense attorney don't like this juror.
            MR. KATYAL:  Justice Ginsburg, the language
in Batson and J.E.B. was qualified by as saying so long
as it related to the task at hand; and the Seventh
Circuit and indeed, the D.C. Circuit last year referred
to that language and talked about an exemption if the
prosecute's motive was personal, as it is in this case.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Has there ever been a
challenge to the exercise of peremptory challenge on the
ground that the challenge was unrelated to the selection
of an impartial jury?
            MR. KATYAL:  In the Seventh Circuit decision
the court said this would stay the cause of action.
This was after this Court's decision in J.E.B., yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 12:07 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

59

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

A
abide 4:14
ability 11:22

20:10,11

able 9:20,21
above-entitled

1:12 59:20
absence 9:1
Absolutely 19:4

37:13 44:19
abstract 21:11
accident 51:3
accountability

50:24

act 7:16 22:13

25:17 36:11,21
40:6,11,12
41:25

acted 5:3
acting 23:13
action 7:17 8:3
8:11,13 11:2
13:20 16:2,6
17:7 22:5
24:17 25:1
26:8 29:14
31:16 34:13
35:8 36:22
38:11 39:21
56:1,21 59:15

actions 4:7

12:25 41:18
57:10 58:3
activity 47:12
actual 4:10

20:15,18 45:19

adding 21:13

58:9

additional 40:8
adequate 33:10
administration

28:9

administrative
4:7 7:16 36:21
40:6,10 56:21
admittedly 30:8

39:10 45:19

adopted 54:9

55:23

advance 39:12
adverse 13:20
38:16 46:15

adversely 47:4,7
affect 11:25
affidavit 14:21
affirmative
30:10 41:4

affirming 25:1
age 10:6 24:5

25:17

agencies 40:15
agency 57:10
agree 5:6 17:9

19:13 23:1
25:20 35:13
36:4 39:5 48:8
55:22

agreed 11:6 36:3

43:10

agreement

11:21 39:18
41:5 43:22

agreements 9:3

53:8

3:5

Agriculture 1:7

AL 1:7
Alito 13:18 14:7

14:13,16,20
31:24 32:14
56:11,18,23,24
57:5

allegation 13:9

48:24

allege 47:25
48:3 52:13
alleged 8:2

32:17 47:11

allegedly 29:25
alleging 29:19
allow 31:15
50:25 55:9
allowed 4:17
altogether 6:2

amenable 25:18
amendment 4:4

21:15 37:11
42:4,7,11,13
42:22 49:16,16
49:17

amicus 1:22 2:8

46:6

amount 8:10
amounts 44:14
analogous 43:19
analogy 43:25

57:25

analysis 31:19

35:19,19 38:15
38:18 44:23
analytic 41:8
Anderson 14:17
animus 13:16
14:10 24:22
46:25 48:1,3

answer 8:7
19:25 22:8
32:10 34:4,6,7
34:10 36:17
37:14 57:24

ANUP 1:3
anymore 18:16

56:5,9

anyway 31:4

56:10

APA 16:18
apparent 35:3
APPEARAN...

1:15

application 45:1
applied 36:6
applies 4:4,5,6

35:11 41:9
43:3 48:11
49:1 52:4
apply 16:24

27:13 31:19
34:11 35:18,19
40:11 44:24
47:13 48:10
53:22 56:25

asserts 9:10
assistant 1:18,20

60

Alderson Reporting Company

57:9

appropriate
37:23 45:10
50:14

April 1:10
arbitrarily

36:11 41:25
arbitrariness

52:15

arbitrary 7:17
33:25 36:21
37:2 48:22
54:25 55:9

area 9:2 16:10

46:24,24
areas 31:24
argue 5:25
arguing 35:15

44:7 56:13

argument 1:13
2:2,10 3:3,7
26:18 33:16,17
35:16,17 38:3
38:14 39:4
45:10 46:4
52:9 55:16
arguments

33:13

arm's 30:24
arose 52:24,25

53:1

articulate 4:18
9:8 11:18,22
12:7 15:2,5
35:25 53:20
56:6

articulated 4:1

51:9

14:2

articulates 9:16

asking 5:3 42:19

44:25

aspect 58:9
assert 23:5

39:19

assume 23:20

44:5

33:24

assuming 44:23
atextual 42:20
attorney 1:18

59:3

attorneys 44:5
attractive 17:6
at-will 10:24
11:8,9,14,20
12:10 13:15
16:4 26:10
35:24 46:20
53:13,16 54:10
54:17 55:24
56:5,7,9

authority 41:17
automatically

available 13:15

41:13

39:8

avenues 27:25
27:25 37:17
average 31:12

31:12,20,20,22

awful 38:5
a.m 1:14 3:2

B

B 52:7
back 5:1,19 7:6

12:19 14:4
22:7 47:10
background

45:25

bad 11:10 50:23
51:21,21 53:25
54:18 55:11

bad-motive

46:14

balance 26:13
balk 49:13
bargaining

11:21 39:17
41:5 43:22
44:9,14 53:8

based 14:2 15:2
25:1 29:20,25
48:13,22 51:5
53:24

basically 13:2

51:10

basis 4:13,24 5:4

5:8 14:5,18
19:17,19 22:11
22:13 34:12
35:20 36:7
41:8 45:2,8
46:15 47:4,7
48:21 49:11
51:7,9,10,11
51:13,25 52:2
52:20 53:20
54:25 57:18
58:3,17,22

Batson 49:17,18
57:25 58:1,10
58:16,23 59:5
Beazer 22:11,16
behalf 1:16,19

1:21 2:4,6,8,12
3:8 26:19
39:19 46:5
55:17

behavior 37:3
believe 8:9 9:9

14:15

belong 28:8
belonged 28:9
bent 15:18
best 33:6
beyond 35:4

big 15:8 30:17

38:12

30:20

Bivens 8:2,10
Blatt 1:20 2:7
46:3,4,8 47:2
47:21 48:11
49:2,5,15 50:7
50:12,21 51:19
51:23 52:10,18
53:16 54:13,16

Official - Subject to Final Review

55:5,14

board 23:1 51:2

54:15

body 17:11
23:13,13
break 23:8
breaking 32:23

32:24

Breyer 6:17,19
6:22 7:5 12:17
16:8,23 23:7
25:9 36:17,20
36:24 37:2,5,8
37:12,14 46:22
47:8

Breyer's 9:7

bribe 27:19 29:5

11:12

50:18

brief 5:13 8:8
9:22 19:13
35:22

briefly 16:10
bring 8:2 16:6
16:24 58:11
broad 28:22

53:22

brought 24:16
27:14 39:23
budget 14:3
18:10,11

budgetary 18:8

18:10

building 47:24
bulk 23:18
bumping 39:15
business 23:13

C
C 2:1 3:1
call 33:11,12
candidate 33:6
candidates 33:4
capacity 52:11
capricious 36:22

37:2

card 34:16

case 3:4 4:2,17
4:22 5:18,25
6:3,25 7:1 8:12
10:18,22,23
12:21 15:6,7,8
15:9 16:16
17:18 18:5,6
22:9 26:22
27:17 28:1
31:8,10,11,12
31:12 33:20,22
33:24,25 34:9
34:13 36:1
38:19 39:23
40:5 42:19
44:7,22 45:3,7
47:22 49:3
50:18,18,22
51:8,16,18,24
51:25 53:5,18
53:19 54:1,21
54:24 55:11,18
57:13,18 58:15
59:9,18,19

cases 5:10 11:19

11:20 12:10
13:7 15:11
16:10,12,20,25
17:12 23:2,9
23:18 27:7,14
29:18 31:15
35:6 38:12,14
39:1,5 42:10
45:20 46:25
50:17,20 52:8
53:6 54:4 59:2
categories 10:5

category 35:25

34:3

47:19

cause 11:2 12:13
12:13,14 16:1
17:7 24:17
25:1 26:8
29:14 31:16
38:11 56:1
59:15

causes 14:6 16:6
certain 28:18,20

28:21 33:2
45:25

certainly 25:25

30:9 33:15
35:13 40:2
41:15 42:5
43:7 50:10
53:24

cetera 10:6
chain 24:9
challenge 22:25
40:1 58:11,21
58:21,24,24
59:11,11,12

challenges 42:2
chance 9:12
change 38:11
characteristic
22:16 23:11
characteristics

23:2 24:1

cheerleading

53:2

chief 3:3,9 5:17
6:3,12 15:4,14
15:21,25 21:10
26:15,20 30:3
30:8 32:4
34:15 35:7
41:7 42:9 46:2
46:8 48:8,25
49:3,12 55:13
57:24 58:8
59:17

chill 38:21 39:1
circuit 3:11,21
4:16 6:1 16:10
16:12 24:3
26:22 27:12,16
28:23 40:1
55:18 59:7,7
59:14

circuits 16:2,3

17:13 26:9

circumstances

7:8

cite 12:21 55:2
citizen 52:11
citizens 27:5
37:21 42:24
47:4

city 13:4 51:3
civil 8:15 16:20
39:8,11 44:12

claim 16:13

21:14,16 24:6
24:22 25:2
26:1,2,3,6
27:24 28:6,17
32:5 33:11
39:22 40:2,2,4
41:11 46:13
48:15,16 49:19
51:4,11,12
52:13 53:11
55:8,10 58:17

claiming 20:3

22:19

claims 24:4
25:10 32:1
36:16 46:10,17
55:19 56:17

class 3:14 22:20
23:17 24:15,20
28:20 29:3,10
29:20,23 30:6
41:10 49:8,9
49:10 52:14
53:10 54:11
58:9 59:2

classes 49:13
classification
25:8 47:17
49:6

classifications
25:9,10 28:21

classify 23:14
classifying

23:15,16 47:17

class-of 58:15
class-of-one
11:2 13:4

61

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

21:12,24 27:14
28:16,24 29:3
29:16,17 31:18
34:9 36:15
38:15 44:23
46:10 50:20
53:22

clause 3:13,17

4:6 7:23 26:11
41:9,11,12,19
48:9 49:1,13
50:8 55:21
56:12,14,17
57:2,9

clauses 12:16
Clause's 3:22
clear 9:8 13:8
19:19 29:9
35:10

client 23:19
cold 23:20
collapsed 18:21
collapsing 18:15
collect 48:12
collective 11:21

39:17 41:5
43:22 44:7,9
44:14 53:8

collective-bar...

9:3

college 31:3
color 54:23
come 8:2,5 14:4
21:2 27:8 40:4

comes 9:10
18:18 51:6
coming 8:24

21:3

command 24:9
common 38:22
common-law

39:22

compensatory

48:13 51:5
complained

24:8

complaint 8:6

complicitor

concede 33:18

38:22

46:14

44:20

conceivable

4:18,23 19:7
19:17,24 20:5
20:9 34:12,21
35:20,23 36:7
45:2 52:2
55:19

conceivable-b...

45:10

conceive 19:18
concept 11:9
concepts 27:13
concern 38:10

53:9 54:19

concerned 33:23

40:4

conclusion

52:17

concurring

47:22

conduct 48:17

50:22 55:9
confined 10:5
conflict 47:3,5

52:24

conflicts 52:19
confronted

Congress 8:24

consideration

considerations

considering

consistent 26:23

consistently
56:16 57:12

Constitution 4:2

7:18 24:11

58:14

24:18

45:16

33:10

34:8

27:2

36:22 50:14
54:6

constitutional

7:24 9:4 26:24
27:3 28:6 30:4
30:9 51:4,24
53:6 55:3,6

constitutionali...

36:25 46:18

constitutionally

Constitution's

22:6

3:18

constrain 11:22
contest 13:23
contested 17:21
context 19:20

22:10 25:7,23
27:14,15 28:17
30:20,22 31:19
31:21,22 32:16
33:7,8 34:10
35:14 36:15
38:16 41:15
42:4,12,22
44:24 46:12
47:3 49:17,18
50:3 52:19
53:11,16,23
contexts 26:24
27:3 35:2 36:6
37:20 42:21
contract 49:23
contrary 3:18
11:3 55:20
57:22

control 4:2
convenience

41:22

correct 8:22

10:14,15 13:25
28:14 49:15

correctly 30:13
cost 49:19,21
Counsel 59:17
counter 6:8
course 6:1 13:10

14:23 24:11
56:4

court 1:1,13

3:10 4:1 5:10
7:22 8:2,5,11
8:20 9:1 13:14
15:5 16:25
19:7 22:2,9,14
24:21,25 25:7
25:18,21 26:21
26:24 29:21
30:1 35:1,4,13
35:18 36:5
37:23 38:10,17
38:20 39:25
42:5,21 44:21
44:23 45:7,8
46:9 48:20
52:1 53:4,19
56:15,23 57:10
58:2,14,17
59:15

courts 17:10

48:20 50:25,25
53:4

Court's 3:19
13:1 14:16
21:23 26:23
27:2 37:19
55:21 59:16

co-workers

18:23

creating 47:16
criminal 50:21
crisis 51:2
criteria 28:20
31:11 33:2
49:8

criticism 4:22
criticize 16:15
cross 29:5
crossed 22:14
curiae 1:22 2:9

46:6

current 28:9
customary
35:18 36:5

45:1

cut 55:19
cuts 6:1
cutting 25:10

D

D 3:1
damages 48:13

48:18 51:5
danger 38:25
date 38:9 39:6
day 56:13
days 5:21 18:22
day-to-day

37:24

dealt 24:25
debate 53:2
decide 4:21
decided 22:1
30:13 48:20
decision 13:2
14:17 21:23
23:1,25 24:4
26:22 27:17
33:1,5,14
39:12 43:16,17
43:24 46:16
49:20,22 52:21
59:14,16

decisionmakers

45:21,23

decisionmaking

37:24

decisions 24:3

27:1,9,9 30:23
30:23 32:25
33:21 38:1,19
39:15 43:21
45:13,13,15
53:6

declining 9:12

9:14 18:2
defendants

33:19,22 45:5

defense 33:10

59:3

deferential 6:1

62

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

6:16 12:16
14:5,8 15:6
17:17

degree 11:1 31:3

31:13,21,23
demand 46:15
Democrat 28:12
denied 43:2

47:24

deny 24:13
department 1:6
1:21 3:4 32:3
depends 17:25
describe 29:17
described 29:22
describes 22:24

determination

23:23

5:9

determine 38:9
difference 11:17

13:8 23:3
45:18

different 7:20
18:9 30:17,21
31:8 33:8
35:15 41:18
42:10,14 49:16
57:17,23

differently 7:14

17:22 52:8

difficult 48:1,2
directed 24:23
directly 22:8
disability 24:5
disabled 58:6
disagree 5:12

disagreement

8:9

11:5

discern 45:20
discharge 53:12
disclaimed 18:5

57:15,18

discrete 10:5
discretion 31:23

31:25 32:15

38:17,22,23
39:2,14 43:18
43:24

discretionary

33:1

discriminate

3:23 10:9

discriminated

8:3 22:21

discriminates

10:2

discrimination
3:12 4:3 10:3,4
10:5,7,12 25:7
25:17,23 29:19
29:25 40:24
50:6

discusses 42:2
disfavored

23:11

dislike 14:10,24

31:5 45:24
dismiss 16:13

17:12

dismissal 5:4
dismissed 20:21

20:23 50:3
dismissing
22:13 24:4
displace 8:23
displaces 7:23

9:4

disputes 50:15
district 39:25

45:7,8

dividing 9:7
doing 17:1 39:20

47:16,16

drawing 42:20
42:20 54:19
drawn 31:10
dressed 18:23
due 9:2 54:3
D.C 1:9,16,21

59:7

E

E 2:1 3:1,1
easement 46:24

52:4,7

easily 47:1
effect 10:10 12:9

21:13 26:10
38:16 55:25
effective 43:16
efficiency 6:15

6:20 9:18
10:17,20 11:19
11:23 12:1,4
15:2 57:23

efficiency-based

12:7

efficient 41:23
either 7:6,7 9:3
elements 45:24
eliminate 55:25
eliminated 11:1
else's 39:16
emphasize 15:5
empirical 15:24
employ 41:2
employed 35:5

43:4 44:17

employee 3:12
5:5 8:1,5 9:20
11:18 13:23
14:8,20,21
15:3,7,8 17:20
24:19 27:17
34:1 42:12
46:18 47:7,25
48:6 52:3,11
employees 18:3

18:13 22:13
24:19 27:4
37:20 41:25
42:7,24 44:6,8
51:3 56:7,9,9

employee's

16:13

employer 9:9,19

11:22 15:1
17:21 22:12
31:10 34:13

38:17,21,23
39:1 43:18,23
47:15 52:22
53:17

employers 4:5
27:1,6 37:22
37:25 38:18
46:19 56:6
employer's

39:14

employment 4:6

10:24 11:8,9
11:14 12:10,12
13:15 16:5
17:6 22:9,10
23:16 26:10
27:9,9,15
28:17,25 30:16
30:21,23 31:10
31:22,25 32:6
32:16,25 33:8
33:21 34:9
36:15 38:1
39:24 40:18,23
41:15 42:16
43:4,14 45:13
46:21 47:15
48:4 49:4 50:3
50:15,19 53:11
53:23 55:6,24
57:16,22

employment's

encompasses

51:1

56:17

ends 57:21
enforcement

32:8,21

enforcing 32:8
Engquist 1:3 3:4
18:12,16 24:7
enormous 39:5
entire 16:4
entitled 15:9

52:4

entitlement 54:5
equal 3:13,21

7:23 12:15,15
21:14,18,21
24:13 26:3,5
26:11 27:23
28:16 36:16
38:15 41:9,19
42:15 43:2,7
43:11 48:9
49:1,12,25
50:1,8 52:14
54:11 55:11,20
55:24 56:12,13
56:16 58:11

equal-protecti...

35:6 45:15
48:15

erred 39:20
ESQ 1:16,18,20

2:3,5,7,11

essentially 25:1

39:16

established 47:1
et 1:7 10:6
etcetera 52:9
everybody

21:17,20 43:3
43:8 50:4

everyday 26:25
evidence 15:25
evil 3:15
exactly 10:21

41:7 58:1

example 4:11
28:19 29:21
31:13 32:16
34:17 42:6
45:22 52:22
56:24

exception 34:4

44:10,17
exceptions

28:18,18,24
30:1

executive 56:21
exemption 59:8
exercise 30:1
38:21 39:1

63

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

58:24 59:11
exercises 3:14
exercising 28:19

52:23

farther 27:13
Federal 7:15,25

30:6

exhaustion 8:25
exist 56:8
existence 7:22
8:13,23 9:3
17:5 37:17
42:6

existing 15:12

16:22

expansive 27:4
experience 33:4
explicit 42:5

54:9

extend 38:17
extending 38:14
extends 56:19
extension 39:4
extremely 14:5

14:7

F

faced 28:23
fact 11:1 15:7

19:24,25 22:24
23:15 32:22,23
32:24 33:20
34:8,19 44:4
44:20 45:14
51:13,25 56:23

factor 37:19
facts 4:22 5:12

6:10 16:15
20:2,3,16 21:1
23:24 36:1

factual 5:1,9 6:9
factually 5:2

13:24

failed 39:19
fair 58:19
fall 57:1
falsifiable 21:9
far 17:6 19:2
27:19 30:11
38:8 40:3

8:1,5,20 9:4
15:5,9,11
16:25 24:19
26:24 37:5,23
38:20 40:3,12
40:14,17 41:6
42:2 50:25

feet 13:7,7
ferret 49:19
feud 32:4
fight 34:22
figure 16:11,16
file 15:18
filed 39:21
filer 15:18,22
filers 15:23
find 22:4
finding 16:12

51:5

finds 44:23
fire 6:5 10:11
fired 5:18 7:11
11:10 12:13
20:6 29:4
34:20 43:8,9
47:18,18 51:4
52:6,7 53:17
firing 15:7,20

56:8

first 4:2 9:6

15:11 23:22
42:7,11,13,21
46:13 49:16

five 14:24 18:21

29:23 32:2

flood 16:4 39:5
floodgate 52:8
following 18:20

29:1

footing 37:21
footnote 8:8

forbids 7:16

29:22

36:21

force 56:6
form 54:20
formal 56:3
former 41:14,14
formulation

28:15

forth 9:16,21
14:12 19:23
20:11 31:4
57:13

forum 26:25
37:23 50:14
forward 6:16
for-cause 46:19

54:3

for-clause 12:12
found 13:11
four 55:15
Fourteenth 4:4

37:10 42:4
49:17

Fourth 21:15
free 52:15
frequent 15:18

15:22

frictions 48:4
friend 30:4
full 43:24
fundamental
3:15 28:19
30:2,7 51:24

G

G 3:1
gender 48:16
51:11 54:22

general 1:18,20
5:12 8:9 23:11
24:12 25:16
28:22 31:18
35:5 44:5

generally 21:23
26:10 27:5,10
37:22 42:24
47:6 52:20

General's 23:4
generated 38:5

getting 12:19

15:8 29:7

Ginsburg 7:25

8:8,14,18
17:18 18:7
19:12,15 22:15
22:23 23:10
24:12,16 25:6
25:13,15,25
26:7 27:16,22
28:1 35:21
36:3 39:7
40:10,14 43:13
50:16 58:20
59:4,10

Ginsburg's 29:2
give 13:20 48:12

51:4 52:10

given 4:21 13:22

32:17 33:19
54:18

gives 13:19

53:17

go 5:19 6:16 7:8

8:19 17:20
22:7 30:11
34:14 50:20
53:4,24

goes 14:13,15,25

30:11 45:12
53:19,23 54:10
54:10 55:23,24

going 7:6,7
11:25 14:8
15:4 16:6
23:25 30:17,19
32:2 33:3
34:17 37:10
47:25 53:21
56:10,10
good 11:10

30:10 33:12
36:2 51:20,22
58:5,19

good-bye 6:24
gotten 32:1
governing 40:14

government
3:16,24,25
4:17 5:15,24
6:15,20 7:4,15
9:9,15,18,24
10:1,9,10,17
10:19,24 11:19
12:20,22 13:19
14:1,11 15:2
18:4,17,18,25
19:1,23,23
20:3,10,17,20
22:10 26:2,3
34:13,20 35:20
35:25 36:11
37:6,8 41:23
41:24,24 42:2
42:16,22 43:4
45:3 50:2
57:13,20,23
governmental

governments

41:18

47:23

government's

18:2 58:18

grant 19:7
great 45:19

46:25

grievance 8:19

52:11

grievances

46:18

ground 59:12
grounded 19:24

19:25 21:1
group 22:16

23:12 24:6,7
24:15 25:10
49:6 51:3
58:22

groups 58:22
group-based

23:2 24:1,4,15
24:22 25:22

guarantee 3:22

9:5 12:16

64

Alderson Reporting Company

improperly 26:5
inappropriately

involved 22:15

22:16,18

guarantees 7:24
guess 9:23
H
hand 59:6
handle 23:18
happen 11:4,7

16:1

happened 11:5
38:19 53:25
happens 13:18
harassment

54:24

hard 13:12 16:7
harder 45:20
harm 16:4
Harrah 22:11
22:24 23:24

hat 6:6
hearing 32:9
held 3:11 22:9
24:21 53:10
56:16,25 57:10
57:11

help 47:23
hey 7:10
high 31:21,23
49:18 53:1

highly 27:10,10
hired 12:12 28:7

44:2 53:3,19

hiring 28:9 34:1
history 13:3

22:3

Honor 4:15 5:6

28:15 35:12
42:18 55:19

hopefully 32:21
hypothesizing

26:12

hypothetical

11:7,12 19:16
31:7,8 33:25
35:23 36:1,2

I

identifiable

22:20 49:6
52:14

ignored 3:21
ill 46:13 48:14
51:6,17 55:10
illegally 21:16
impartial 58:25

59:13

implies 44:16
imply 8:11
important 35:9
impose 4:11,12
42:23 46:19
54:2

imposed 48:18
imposing 48:17
improper 21:19

34:3

including 28:18

18:23

44:5

inconsistent
3:19 54:3
incorporate

14:18

indicate 14:24
individual 4:3
11:10 22:25
23:24 24:23
25:2 45:12
57:10 58:15
individualistic

individualized

27:11

49:7

42:11

individuals 10:2

inefficient 3:25
infinitely 24:2
infirm 22:6
inherent 48:4
inherently 30:22

inquire 4:10 5:2

37:25

35:9

Official - Subject to Final Review

inquiries 5:2
inquiry 6:2
instance 23:12
instances 36:11
intentional

intentionality

39:23

17:15

interest 3:17
interference

39:24

interfering 9:18
intermediate

interpretation

invidious 13:9

7:12

25:19

13:11

involving 51:24
irrational 4:3
8:5 49:20,22
irrelevant 6:7
issue 8:12 30:14

33:21 34:11
41:16 58:14
issues 18:10

J

JANET 1:18 2:5

job 9:19 18:23

26:18

33:7

jobs 18:22
judge 53:4,4
judging 45:11
judgment 14:17
17:16,24 19:8
33:11,12,18
45:6

juries 53:24
juror 58:15 59:3
jury 13:10 14:14
14:16,25 34:14
45:7 48:17,19
48:23 51:8,12

51:25 53:5,5
53:15 54:21
58:25 59:13

Justice 1:21 3:3
3:9 4:9,20 5:7
5:17 6:3,12,17
6:19,22 7:5,7
7:25 8:7,14,18
9:7,23 10:3,16
10:19,22 11:3
11:6,12,15,24
12:5,8,11,16
12:19,24 13:6
13:12,16,18
14:7,13,16,20
15:4,14,21,25
15:25 16:8,23
17:18 18:7,17
19:2,6,12,14
19:15,22 20:2
20:8,14,17,19
20:20,25 21:5
21:10,25 22:4
22:7,15,23
23:7,10 24:11
24:16 25:6,8
25:13,15,25
26:7,15,20
27:16,22 28:1
28:5,11 29:1,2
29:8,10,13
30:3,8,12,16
31:1,7,14,24
32:9,14 33:9
33:23 34:15
35:7,21 36:3,9
36:14,17,20,24
37:2,5,8,12,14
37:16 38:2,4
39:7 40:3,10
40:14,17,20,23
41:1,7,17,22
42:9 43:1,7,11
43:13 44:1,11
44:16 45:9
46:2,8,22 47:8
48:8,25 49:3

49:12,25 50:9
50:16 51:14,16
51:20 52:3,16
53:9 54:7,14
55:2,13,22
56:2,11,18,22
56:24 57:5,24
58:8,20 59:4
59:10,17

justification

19:16

J.E.B 59:5,16

K

Katyal 1:16 2:3

2:11 3:6,7,9
4:15 5:23 6:8
6:14,19 7:3,19
8:7,17,22 10:1
10:15,21 11:3
11:15 12:3,6,9
12:14,22 13:1
13:10,14 14:1
14:11,15 15:1
15:10,17,24
16:22 17:3,25
18:9 19:1,4,10
19:21 20:7,10
20:16,19,25
21:7,22 22:2,7
22:23 23:22
24:24 25:12,20
26:7,16 55:15
55:16,18 56:2
56:15,22 57:3
57:7 58:1,13
59:4,14

keep 29:12,16

56:11

Kennedy 9:23
12:11,19,24
13:6,12,16
21:25 22:4,8
30:12,16 31:1
31:7,14 32:9
33:23 36:9,14
37:16 38:2

65

Alderson Reporting Company

41:17,22 52:3
52:16 55:2
Kimel 5:10
kind 23:11

25:17 33:1,14
44:3,6,8,11
45:14,25 56:14
kinds 45:13 53:5
know 5:19 6:25
7:1,1 9:11 13:3
15:15 16:1,6,8
16:15,18 17:10
18:21,24 20:6
20:22 21:19
24:7,15 25:8
29:6 32:12
35:21 41:21
42:1 45:11
47:9 52:17

L
Lake 13:4
land 16:3
language 57:1
58:16 59:4,8

large 8:10
late 5:22 6:5,13

18:21 21:3
34:18,18 51:17
56:13

Laughter 50:11
law 11:21 16:3

17:12 21:14,20
24:14 32:8,21
32:24 40:4
41:5 43:3,3,12
47:22 50:2,2,5
50:6 53:2
56:20

lawful 53:12
laws 7:21 9:4

15:12,13 32:23
39:11 53:8
56:18

lawsuit 15:19
lawyer 53:19
layoff 39:15

54:16

left 54:12
legal 48:19
legally 21:17
legislation 19:17

25:18 45:11
47:20

legislative 35:2
35:8,14 45:20
legislators 4:11

35:10 45:12
legislature 5:3

19:18

legislatures 4:8
legitimate 3:16

3:24 47:4,6
52:20 53:18
length 30:24
let's 6:4 13:21
17:18 33:24
level 5:9 8:1
Lewis 57:11
liable 33:13
Liberty 14:17
likelihood 49:22
limit 32:3
limitations 41:4
limited 9:2

39:11 43:21,23

limits 55:6
line 9:7 24:1

42:19,20 54:19

lines 27:7
LISA 1:20 2:7

46:4

list 31:10
Listen 4:20
literal 57:1
literally 29:17

57:6

literalness 56:14
litigating 49:19
litigation 34:17

38:6

little 29:7

51:1

long 6:20 10:16

10:16 13:3
15:1 19:6
20:25 22:3
34:7,11 35:19
46:20 50:4
59:5

longstanding

long-established

50:13

17:11

look 5:11,13,20

14:20 45:16
54:20

looking 5:7 47:9
lose 49:10
lot 31:25 38:6
lots 55:6
low 17:8
lower 13:21

17:10

M

made-up 47:17
majority 17:13
malice 24:22

malicious 48:22

32:19

55:1

manager 33:2

39:12,13

mandates 12:15
mandating 8:25

manipulable

13:2

24:2

market 18:15,21
Martin 22:11,24

23:24

matter 1:12 3:15

3:16 8:14
11:16,16,16
17:21 18:8
28:22 35:5

Official - Subject to Final Review

lead 3:25
leave 23:19 42:3

Lobby 14:17
local 32:3 47:23

44:4,14 56:4,8
59:2,20

mayor 47:24

52:5,10

mayor's 48:2
Ma'am 46:22
mean 5:18 6:9

6:25 16:14
20:14,15 34:16
36:18 41:8
47:19,19 54:8
54:17 55:5,9
meaning 10:4
means 7:8 19:20

23:14 58:21

meet 51:14 53:9
member 3:14
22:19 24:14
30:5

membership
23:5 28:19
29:20 30:2
49:6 52:13
memo 45:6
mentioned

28:21

mere 51:10
merit 53:7
Metcalf 1:18 2:5

26:17,18,20
27:21,23 28:3
28:10,14 29:8
29:12,15 30:8
30:14,19 31:6
31:9,17 32:7
32:11,20 33:15
34:6,25 35:12
36:3,13,19,23
37:1,4,7,9,13
37:18 38:8
39:10 40:7,13
40:16,19,22,25
41:3,14,21
42:1,17 43:6
43:10,15 44:4
44:13,19 45:18
46:2 50:17

methadone

22:17

miles 32:2
million 15:22

16:19

mind 45:24
minds 45:12
minutes 55:15
Missouri 57:11
misunderstand

misunderstood

35:17

19:21

mixed 51:16
mixed-motive

51:23

moment 42:4
Monday 1:10
money 29:7
motion 45:6
motions 17:13
motivated 58:4

58:4

motivation

58:18

motive 4:10 13:9

13:11 53:25
55:11 59:9

motives 35:10

51:16

municipal 24:19
Murgia 22:12
muster 11:13,14

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
national 12:11
48:16 54:22

nature 27:10,11

30:23 31:18
38:1

NEAL 1:16 2:3
2:11 3:7 55:16
necessarily 35:3
need 7:17
negate 6:10 9:12
9:21 20:12,14

66

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

never 7:22 9:20

offered 18:1

odd 34:16
offer 19:1 21:8

31:17

45:3

20:15,16

neighborhood

53:1

9:20 51:12
52:23

nine 16:3 26:9
Ninth 3:11,21

4:15 5:25 24:3
26:22 27:12,16
28:23 40:1
55:18

norm 32:21,25
normally 4:10
17:25 47:11
notion 10:23

57:22

46:20

notwithstandi...

no-reason 56:8
null 55:8
number 27:4
29:17 32:18
38:12,13 45:23
45:24 46:25
50:4 53:10

numbers 17:8

O
O 2:1 3:1
objection 6:6

51:15

objective 9:10
21:8,8 23:6
24:1,15 31:2
31:11 32:22
57:14

objectively 14:2

21:9

objectivity

31:22

obligations
42:13,23

observation

35:1

Obviously 38:9
occasions 29:4

34:23

ought 45:16
outlier 53:14
outrageous 3:15
outside 9:1

25:23 28:23
31:24 32:6,16
42:4,20 43:23
59:1

overutilized

overwhelming

38:24

49:21

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 5:13

9:22

paid 18:3,13
panoply 15:12

paradigmatic

56:5

10:24

parse 41:18
part 5:7 9:6 23:9

24:6,7 27:8
30:22 44:21
45:20 48:3

particular 15:16

24:23 25:23
30:6 35:2
38:13

particularly
3:24 11:20

parts 23:9
party 28:8
pass 11:13,14
passed 40:6
pay 18:16 29:5
people 8:4 10:13

17:19 22:16
26:4 44:16
perceptions

48:5

peremptory

42:2 58:21,24
58:24 59:1,11

perfectly 20:9
performance
13:21 18:5
period 31:19
permit 6:16

47:25

person 3:14,22

5:18 6:5,23
7:12 10:12,20
11:25 13:21,22
24:20 27:18
28:7,7,9 30:5,5
30:6,7 31:3,4
47:18,18 49:14
53:3 58:7,10
personal 14:10
14:24 32:4,18
56:17 57:21
59:9

personality 47:3

47:5 52:18

personnel 46:15

52:21 54:4

persons 24:21
person's 25:2
Petitioner 1:4

1:17 2:4,12 3:8
30:11 35:15
55:17

Petitioner's

33:16,17 35:16
35:17

PHILLIPS 5:6
pick 19:3,4

39:13

plaintiff 6:9

9:12,15 14:3
15:18 17:6
20:11 29:19
48:12

plaintiffs 16:5

20:7 29:18
please 3:10
26:21 46:9

point 7:7 12:20
33:18 39:3,5
45:5 54:17

pointed 29:21
points 30:4

35:12

police 32:3,4,17
policeman 55:3
policy 32:19
political 28:8
positing 15:17
position 13:23

18:19 21:6
27:18 35:22
39:16 45:4

possibility 13:16
possible 5:20,22
possibly 13:17
potential 27:25
power 57:20,21
powers 3:23
practical 11:15
11:16 56:4,8
practice 17:1
23:5 24:11
29:6

precedent 25:3

precedents 3:19

55:21

25:4

precise 25:16
precisely 43:15

43:20 44:13
prefer 31:13

33:2

preferable

53:24

preference

45:25

presuming 31:1
presuppose 54:4
pretext 51:10

53:25

prevail 10:23
price 38:25
prices 9:11,14
principle 50:13
principles 4:1

50:13

private 37:21

officer 32:17
official 42:13
officials 4:7
oh 5:21 23:16

42:9 50:9

Okay 7:19 37:15

54:14

Olech 13:2,7,13
21:23,25 22:5
24:25 29:21,22
29:22 30:12,15
31:8 32:5
41:16 52:12
Oleck 46:23
once 23:25
ones 57:15,19
one-person-cl...

55:24

open 25:21
opening 26:11
opens 25:25
opinion 36:10
36:14 47:22
53:22

opponent's 38:4
opportunity

5:16,25 6:10
opposed 8:11
13:7 32:19
49:7

opted 54:15
oral 1:12 2:2 3:7

26:18 46:4

ordinance 21:19
ordinary 18:6
Ore 1:19
Oregon 1:6 3:4

18:11 39:7
44:8

origin 48:16

54:22

otherworldly

67

Alderson Reporting Company

probably 31:21

37:9 45:23
problem 7:6
21:22 24:10
30:17,20 32:15
46:17

problems 15:10
procedural 9:2

Procedure 40:6

39:17

40:11

procedures 7:16

8:19 36:21
40:12

process 9:2 54:4
proffer 33:22
prohibited 3:12

promote 27:20

49:23

43:16

promoting 31:2
promotion
13:22 29:7
proper 5:8
properly 21:20

26:4 53:7

proportion 44:1
proposition 9:24
prosecute's 59:9
prosecutor 58:3

58:6,10 59:2
protection 3:13
3:17,22 7:23
12:15,15 21:14
21:18,21 24:14
26:3,6,11
27:24 28:17
36:16 38:15
41:9,19 42:15
43:2,8,12 44:6
44:9 48:9 49:1
49:13 50:1,1,8
52:14 53:8
54:11 55:11,21
55:25 56:12,13
56:16 58:11

protections 44:3

Official - Subject to Final Review

provision 13:13

questions 7:20

55:12

protects 4:3
provided 24:17
provides 3:17

40:8

30:4

public 3:12 4:4
4:5 27:1,3,6,8
27:15 28:17,25
30:16 36:15
37:20,24 38:1
38:17,18,21,23
39:1 41:15
42:7,12,24
46:19,20 49:4
50:19,24 51:1
52:3 53:11
55:6

public-employ...

punched 5:21

46:11

6:5,13

punitive 48:13

48:18 51:5
pure 52:15
purely 49:7
purporting

20:18

purpose 3:24

10:7

put 7:14 9:16
14:12 19:23
20:11 23:17
47:18 57:13

puts 34:20
p.m 59:19
Q

qualifications

33:4

59:5

qualified 27:18

qualifying 35:24
question 7:14

8:10 9:7 19:22
21:11 22:8

28:22 29:2
32:10,12,14
44:22,24 48:19
51:13,25 52:1
54:8

57:9

quite 17:4,9

19:19 22:23
23:23 24:24
42:14 56:22
58:13

quotes 29:16

R

R 3:1
race 15:16 22:21

34:2 48:15
51:11 54:23

racial 10:6
raise 15:8
raised 45:4,5

50:17

ran 48:15
rare 12:10
ratings 13:21
rational 4:13,24
5:4,8 6:24 7:2
7:8,10 14:5
19:19 20:24
22:11,13 34:12
35:20 36:7
45:2 46:15
48:21 49:11
51:7,9,11,13
51:25 52:2
54:25 57:17
58:3,17

rationale 4:18

5:14 6:11 9:16
12:7,17 14:2
14:18 18:1,2
18:14 19:24
21:1,9 28:4
35:11 45:19
57:14 58:6,9
rationales 18:5

56:7 57:16

rational-basis
4:5,9,16,25
6:15 20:12
35:5,18 36:6
45:1

raw 57:21
read 13:1 16:9

56:14 57:6
readily 44:20

48:5

real 13:24 14:9

14:9 23:10
34:25 35:2
38:10,25 53:14

reality 9:10
really 9:20
16:12 17:1
20:6,21 23:14
27:12 35:15
38:5 39:13
43:23 44:2,25
reason 5:20,22
8:8 9:25 10:2
11:10,11,11,17
12:20,23,24
13:19,24 14:9
14:9 15:2 16:5
16:12,19 17:7
18:19 19:3,7
20:4,15,18,21
20:22,23 22:6
23:10 28:7
31:2,18 34:1
34:21,23 35:1
35:3,25 36:2
46:22 51:17,21
51:21,21,22
53:11,12,13,17
54:14,18,18
56:3

reasons 19:5
20:5,9 34:19
35:9 45:17
48:23 50:4
55:1

rebut 14:4 15:3

REBUTTAL
2:10 55:16

rebutted 41:12
receive 52:5
recharacterize

50:23

recognition

26:23 27:2,8
37:20,25

recognized 30:1

34:2 42:6
46:11 58:23

recognizes

10:25

record 5:15 6:12
redress 37:17
reduced 55:7
referred 59:7
referring 25:9
refused 45:8
regard 17:20
33:20 37:22

regulatory

30:20,23 31:21
32:7 33:7 35:8
47:3 52:19
rejected 31:4

48:18

rejection 54:22
related 6:20,23
10:16 58:18
59:6

relation 10:12
relationship

39:24

relatively 30:24

31:23 32:22
33:5 38:12
relevant 25:3

57:8

rely 50:9
relying 50:7,12
remaining 55:15
remedies 7:23

8:15,21,23
17:5 37:10
39:11,17 40:21

68

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

says 8:1,3 9:17

seriously 16:14

17:11

service 8:15

16:21 39:8,11
44:12 53:7
set 9:21 55:8
seven 18:20 20:8
Seventh 59:6,14
sex 22:21 34:2
48:16 51:11
sexual 54:24
sheet 7:9
sheets 5:21
shows 6:13
side 33:13 34:21

49:9 50:24
51:4,6 52:23
significantly
30:21 33:8
similar 45:22

47:2

similarly 8:4
17:14,19,22
18:4

simple 46:14

54:24

simply 4:12
10:11 14:9
26:24 27:4
31:18 32:18
34:8 35:4
37:21,23 42:23
43:1 46:24
single 15:23
29:19 49:19

Sioux 13:4
sir 57:4
sitting 5:1
situated 8:4

17:14,19,22,23
18:4

situation 13:19

22:18 39:9
41:10 42:15

situations 56:19

56:25

small 38:13

Snowden 13:5
solely 37:18

39:13 43:18
48:22 54:25
Solicitor 1:20
5:12 8:9 23:4
24:12

somebody 10:11

12:1 13:20
27:20 28:12
29:4

someplace 54:5
somewhat 33:16
sort 9:10 11:23
32:3,19 42:19
44:22

source 49:24
sources 41:4
Souter 10:3,16
10:19,22 11:4
11:6,15 45:9
51:14 53:9
54:7,14 55:22
56:2

specific 27:14

45:14,17 58:14

speed 32:2
speeding 32:2

32:23

spite 14:9
spring 54:5
squad 53:2
staff 48:2
stage 14:18
standard 9:8

15:6 16:16,17
16:18,19,20,24
32:22 45:15

start 23:25
started 16:9
starting 13:4
State 3:23 4:7
4:11 5:3 7:15
7:21,22 8:15
8:21,23 9:4
10:25 11:21
12:6 17:5

remedy 37:11

39:8 40:8 41:6
repeatedly 32:1
replead 24:6
reply 9:21
reporting 54:23
Republican

28:13

requirement
46:19 54:3
requirements

17:15,15

requires 25:22
requiring 13:16
reserve 26:13
residual 46:13
48:14 55:10
resolve 50:15
resolved 17:23

53:7

respect 35:8
39:14 41:25
43:20 57:8

respects 57:6,8
Respondents
1:19,23 2:6,9
26:19 46:7
response 51:1
restate 32:12
restriction 4:12
restrictions

42:23

retained 13:22
retaining 31:3
retaliation

54:23

return 9:6
revenues 18:2,4

18:14

review 4:5,9
14:19 37:24
53:2 58:3,17

revise 55:4
rich 27:19
right 3:15 6:22
7:5 8:2,11,13
8:19 10:19

12:5,8 19:10
23:19,21 28:19
30:2,7 38:6,9
40:6,13,16
41:2 42:14,15
43:14 47:9
48:12 50:21
51:23,24 52:15
54:17 55:3
56:22

rights 27:3 42:7
42:11 43:22,23
Roberts 3:3 5:17
6:3,12 15:4,14
15:21 21:10
26:15 30:3,9
34:15 35:7
41:7 42:9 46:2
48:8,25 49:3
49:12 55:13
57:24 58:8
59:17

role 52:19
rooted 36:1
routine 46:18

50:15

rule 11:14 27:17
44:10,18 53:13
54:9,10,15,17
55:23 56:3

rules 47:16 56:5
rule-making

47:11

run 32:15
S

S 1:20 2:1,7 3:1

46:4

Salem 1:19
satisfied 49:4
satisfy 53:13
saying 4:20

10:10 11:13
18:8 19:19,22
20:20 22:20
36:22 53:22
58:2 59:5

12:21 14:20,21
18:18 20:4
22:5 27:17
30:4 34:22
36:10,14 52:5
53:17 55:23
58:16

Scalia 4:9,20 5:7

11:24 12:5,8
18:17 19:2,6
19:14 20:2,8
20:14,17,20,25
21:5 28:5,11
40:3,17,20,23
41:1 43:1,7,11
49:25 50:9
Scalia's 7:7

19:22

scapegoat 28:1

50:18,22

scapegoating

school 23:1 51:2

50:24

53:2

se 39:11
search 21:15
second 4:4 17:9

23:12 44:21
46:14

secondly 23:25
second-guess
26:25 51:1

second-guessed

second-guessing

53:21

38:20

section 8:12

25:3,13

see 5:19 7:12

17:8

seen 26:9
seizure 21:16
selection 58:25

59:12

sense 43:17,19
sentiment 23:8

69

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

18:11,12 24:13
24:18 33:22
37:8 40:11,11
40:21,24 41:1
41:6 44:6,8,25
45:4 47:23
50:25 53:20
statement 38:5
states 1:1,13,22
2:8 16:20 46:5
52:16 55:11
State's 18:14

State-law 39:22

state-of-mind

33:19

40:2

45:14

statute 25:16,16
statutes 44:3
statutory 8:13

8:24 25:12
41:6 48:16
49:24 55:12

stay 59:15
stemming 56:20
step 7:13
stepping 42:3
Stevens 29:1,8
29:10,13 33:9
38:4 44:1,11
44:16 51:16,20

stick 36:5
story 51:7
stressing 56:11
strikes 58:4
subject 38:20

41:3,19 43:18
50:5

subjective 27:10

30:22 31:17
33:1,5 38:1
49:7 57:15,16

subjectivity

31:23

submitted 51:8
54:21 59:18,20

subordinate

47:6

subset 31:15
successful 38:14

38:25 39:25
sue 56:10,10
suffice 12:17
sufficient 52:23

56:3

suit 52:12
summary 14:17
17:16,23 19:7
33:18 45:5
Sunday 13:4
supervisor 6:18
9:17 10:10,13
14:22,23 29:5
47:5 48:3

supervisors 24:8

27:19

supervisor's

49:9

47:21

13:25

support 42:6

supported 5:15

supporting 1:22

2:9 46:7

supports 58:1
suppose 18:17

18:18 29:2
32:1

Supreme 1:1,13
sure 16:25 48:11

57:3,7

surely 57:21
surprised 33:16
suspect 3:14
28:20 34:3
sustained 6:7
sweeping 13:13
system 12:12
34:16 44:12
systems 16:21

T

T 2:1,1
take 6:6 10:4

17:18 18:19
23:8 26:1
30:14 32:4
33:24 45:7,16
52:24

taken 50:19
takes 12:25
talk 49:25
talked 59:8
talking 10:6
25:24 29:24
42:12 47:14
55:7

talks 49:13 50:1

56:18

targeted 3:13
task 59:6
tax 4:11 13:6

25:9

taxation 23:14

46:24 47:10,19

team 53:2
tell 23:20
tells 51:7 52:23
terminate 56:7
termination
22:25 52:12
test 4:14,16,25
5:8 6:15 14:5
14:18 17:16
20:1,12 21:7,7
23:4 25:12
28:15 34:11,11
35:4,16 36:4,6
44:22,25 45:2
45:10 53:14
text 3:18 25:12
30:10 50:8,9
55:20 56:11,16
textual 42:5,20
Thank 3:9 26:14

26:15 46:1,2
55:13 59:17

theoretical

23:15

theory 3:18

55:10

thing 23:15,23
28:16,24 34:9
44:15 46:23
47:24 50:23

things 7:19
14:22 17:4
38:11 47:14

think 4:19 5:23
10:9 11:4 17:3
19:10 21:22,25
22:2,24 23:2,3
23:23 24:24,25
25:21,24 27:7
27:12 28:15
30:9,10,12,21
32:8,20 33:6,7
36:4,17 37:18
38:6,8,12,22
39:3 41:8,9,11
42:14,18 43:25
45:18,19 47:22
48:25 50:23
54:2 56:12
57:5,16 58:1
58:13

thinks 48:6
third 4:6
thorn 49:8
thought 11:6,9

15:9 16:17
18:7 19:12,13
19:14,18,22
23:8 34:3
39:20 47:9
58:20 59:1

three 4:1 29:3,4

33:21

threshold 29:6
throwing 29:12
ticket 32:18
tickets 32:2,18
time 5:20 7:9
26:13 34:16
53:19

times 6:6,13
Title 15:12,14
15:19 25:16

70

Alderson Reporting Company

48:17 56:6
today 33:17
to-date 38:13
tradition 46:20
traditional 51:7
traffic 32:23
tragic 51:2
treat 52:7
treated 21:16,17

21:21 26:4,5
48:7 51:10

treating 47:4,7
treatment 48:5

56:20

trial 4:17 6:4
18:14 45:6
58:5,5,19,19

trick 54:8
trinity 11:11
trouble 32:9
true 20:2
truly 49:20,22
trump 51:21
truth 6:23
try 14:4 23:22
32:12 49:19
trying 15:18
16:10 21:8
47:23 54:8

turn 28:11
turned 9:13
two 7:19,20
15:10 16:2
17:4 18:9 23:9
23:18 24:8
26:8 29:3,4
35:12 46:10
50:12,17,20
twofold 34:7
types 46:10

U

ultimately 18:11

33:5

uncle 27:19
underlying 5:11
undermining

11:19

understand 11:8

21:5 32:11
33:17 35:16

understood 38:2
underutilized

38:24

undisputed 35:3
undoubtedly

27:24

unequal 56:19
unfair 48:5
unfairly 48:6
uniform 32:19
union 8:18

39:18,19,20

United 1:1,13,22

2:8 46:5

unlawful 48:17
unnecessary

unreasonable

3:20

7:17

unreasonably

36:12

unrelated 3:16
58:25 59:12

unusual 31:9,15
unworkable
3:20 23:4
24:10

upheld 17:14
urge 40:4 54:20
urged 45:6
use 3:23 8:20
users 22:17
uses 24:20
V

v 1:5 3:4 14:17

22:11,24

valid 32:5 55:11
variety 5:10
various 33:4
vast 3:23
verdict 54:20
versus 13:5

23:24 57:11

viable 40:2
VII 15:12,14,19

25:17 48:17
vindictive 34:1
48:22 54:25
violation 21:14
21:18,21 41:12

virtually 12:17
vis-a-vis 27:5

42:8

W
wake 24:3
want 10:20

16:14,24,24
18:18 32:12,13
36:10 41:24
52:17

Washington 1:9

1:16,21

wasn't 21:2,3,17
22:17 43:13,14
53:3 54:8

way 15:3 24:12

32:24 40:5
52:6 56:4

ways 3:25 27:5
weigh 33:3
went 48:19,23
weren't 9:14
We'll 3:3
we're 15:17

25:10 29:24
31:1 34:7,10
we've 16:1 26:7
wheat 9:11,14
18:2,3,14,15
18:21

willing 4:14
win 16:7 51:18

withdrawn

54:15

18:12

withdrew 18:7
wondered 47:8
word 24:20

Official - Subject to Final Review

12:07 59:19
15 13:7
16 9:22
18 8:8
1879 56:23

57:11
19 25:13
1983 8:12 24:17

25:1,8,22

1985 24:20 25:3
1985(3) 24:21

25:7

2
20 14:22
2008 1:10
21 1:10
26 2:6 16:2 26:8
27 16:2 26:8

3

3 2:4
30 13:7 17:19
30-foot 52:4

4
40 15:22
46 2:9

5

7

5 5:13
55 2:12

7 56:6

words 21:15

42:12

work 21:3 34:18

34:18 51:18
workers 4:22
workforce 44:2
working 11:25
workplace 48:5

52:25

works 56:5
worms 25:21

26:1,11

worried 13:14

15:21,22

worry 38:18
worth 49:21
wouldn't 17:20

29:5 43:19

write 36:10,13

53:21,22

wrong 17:1,4

wrongdoing

38:6

26:2

wrongly 22:1

X

x 1:2,8

Y

Yeah 14:15
year 59:7
years 14:24 16:2

26:8

Z
zero 3:17
zoning 21:19,20

23:14 25:9
47:10,20
0

07-474 1:5 3:4

1
10 18:13
11:05 1:14 3:2
12(b)(6) 17:12

71

Alderson Reporting Company

