Official

1

       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MONROE ACE SETSER,                :
            Petitioner            :
       v.                         :  No. 10-7387
UNITED STATES.                    :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Wednesday, November 30, 2011

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
JASON D. HAWKINS, ESQ., Assistant Federal Public
   Defender, Dallas, Texas; for Petitioner.
WILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
   General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
   Respondent, in support of Petitioner.
EVAN A. YOUNG, ESQ., Austin, Texas; for amicus curiae,
   in support of the judgment below; appointed by this
   Court.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

2

                     C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
JASON D. HAWKINS, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                      3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
WILLIAM M. JAY, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondent, in support          15
   of the Petitioner
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
EVAN A. YOUNG, ESQ.
   On behalf of amicus curiae, in support           30
   of the judgment below
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JASON D. HAWKINS, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                      57

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

3

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                       (10:03 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-7387, Setser v. United
States.
            Mr. Hawkins.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF JASON D. HAWKINS
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
            MR. HAWKINS:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            This case concerns whether, in passing the
Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, Congress granted to the
Federal district court the authority to order a Federal
sentence to run consecutively to a -- a sentence which
has yet to be imposed and may never come to fruition.
The text of 3584, its structure, and its history all
point to the conclusion that the court lacks this power.
            We believe the question should start and end
with the statute's text.  When a defendant receives
multiple terms of imprisonment, they must bear one of
three relationships to each other.  Either one is
imposed before the other, the other is imposed before
the one, or they are imposed at the same time.
            In --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, in the third

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

4

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

sentence of this provision, on its face, does Mr. Setser
fit into it?
            MR. HAWKINS:  No, Your Honor.  He does not.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  "Multiple terms of
imprisonment imposed at different times run
consecutively."  What's unclear about those words?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, that term can
only --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  The words are not
unclear.  We have to do the statutory interpretation
that you want?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your -- Your Honor, the words
can only be read in the context of the first -- of the
first sentence.  We believe that the third sentence only
applies where the Court had the authority to actually
order this but remained silent.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Some fairly respected
jurists below, Judge Easterbrook and Judge Fletcher, two
different circuits, have read it as taking care of all
those situations that the other two sentences don't
cover.  Why is that an irrational reading?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, I -- I think it
has to be read -- the third sentence has to be read in
its place within the statute, and I think that the third
sentence refers exclusively to circumstances where the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

5

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

defendant was already serving another term of
imprisonment at the time of the Federal sentencing.  And
I think we know this because of the parallel structure
of 3584(a).  It --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But that assumes the
answer, is what I'm saying to you.  If you give each
sentence its plain meaning, why is -- why is Mr. Setser
not within the plain meaning of the third?  He -- he had
multiple terms of imprisonment imposed at different
times.
            MR. HAWKINS:  Yes, but those terms of
imprisonment weren't -- there was no term of
imprisonment imposed at the time of his Federal
sentencing.  He was not serving an undischarged term of
imprisonment.  And we believe that the natural flow of
the statute -- the default rule only comes in place if
the court has the power to sentence under the first
sentence --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You would say that at the
time of sentencing, there were no multiple terms of
imprisonment; is that your point?
            MR. HAWKINS:  That is correct, Your Honor.
At the time of the Federal sentencing, Mr. -- Mr. Setser
was not subject to an undischarged term of imprisonment.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What difference does it

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

6

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

make for him?  Now, he served his State time.  He came
over to serve his Federal sentence.  He didn't get
credit for the 2-1/2 years he spent in -- in the State.
But what is the consequence?  How much -- what is the
difference to the defendant in this case?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, we -- we believe
that the order -- what the order did was bind the court.
I'm sorry.  The -- the order bound the Bureau of
Prisons.  And so, what it does -- what happens is Mr.
Setser is not able to petition the Bureau of Prisons to
allow that sentence to begin running from the time of
the Federal sentencing.  And so, the difference, Your
Honor, is 1 year, 6 months, and 23 days that we believe
that he is entitled to credit for.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And this is --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Entitled to credit or you
could seek it?  I mean, what wouldn't -- he has the
State time and he -- 2-1/2 years, and then he has his
Federal sentence.  Why would you be entitled to any
credit?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Because -- because, Your
Honor, the court ordered that the -- the Federal
sentence to run concurrently to that 10-year sentence
that he received in State court.  And so, we believe he
is entitled to credit for that -- for that sentence.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

7

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE ALITO:  In situations like this,
somebody is going to have to make the decision whether
the Federal sentence and the subsequently imposed State
sentence run concurrently or consecutively.  And now
you're arguing that that should be done by the Bureau of
Prisons.  Do you think in general that is better for
defendants than a rule that would allow the sentencing
judge in Federal court to make that determination?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, in our estimation
the question is not the who, but the when.  And at the
time, at the Federal sentencing, the Federal judge did
not have the complete information to make the proper
judgment in this case.  He had no idea what that State
term of imprisonment was going to be.  So, in our
estimation, it is better that -- that the Bureau of
Prisons has all the information to make this decision.
It will actually know what the State term of
imprisonment is.
            I'm not here to advocate that the system
that the Bureau of Prisons uses -- uses is perfect.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Why would the -- why would
the exact length of the sentence imposed by the State
court be relevant to the determination made by the
sentencing judge?  I thought the sentencing judge's
reasoning was that the -- the undischarged term of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

8

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

imprisonment that was going to be imposed on the offense
for which probation had previously been granted and
there had been a violation of the probation, that that
had nothing to do with his subsequent Federal drug
charges, and, therefore, the Federal drug charges should
run consecutively to that but should be concurrent to
any sentence imposed by the State court on the State
drug charges.
            What -- you know, what's wrong with that
reasoning, and what additional insight relevant to that
reasoning would be obtained by waiting until after the
sentence was imposed?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Well, Your Honor, at the time
that the Federal judge passed this sentence, he had no
idea what was going to happen in either case.  But more
importantly, with regard to the term of probation, the
Federal judge had no idea whether that term was going to
be revoked, whether it would be modified, or whether he
would receive any sentence of -- of imprisonment at all.
            And in making the judgment on whether those
terms should run concurrently or consecutively, Your
Honor, 3584(b) directs the court to look at the factors
of 3553(a) in making that determination.  And it would
be impossible to make that determination under 3553(a)
whether the sentence is adequate to deter, whether that

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

9

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

sentence protects the public, without knowing what that
State term of --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, that's interesting.
            MR. HAWKINS:  -- imprisonment actually is.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Do you think that the Bureau
of Prisons is bound by those factors when they make the
decision later?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, the -- the Bureau
of -- of Prisons is bound by the factors of 3621(b), and
several of those factors match up with the factors in
3553(a).  It has to look at the nature and circumstance
of the crime, the characteristics of the defendant.  It
has to look to the United States Sentencing Guidelines,
and it also has to take in the view of what the Federal
judge believes should have happened.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Where is --
            MR. HAWKINS:  To the extent --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Where is all that
that you just read, that they're bound by all these
things?  Where do I find that?
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  It's 3621(b).  Is it cited
in any of your briefs?  Or pardon me.  Is 3621(b) set
forth in any of the materials?
            I have it in front of me, but I -- is it
in the Government's brief or --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

10

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, I believe it is
in -- in the Solicitor General's -- in the appendix to
the Solicitor General's brief, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I'm looking
at -- I guess I got this off -- somebody got this off
line for me.  I'm looking at the program statement of
the Bureau of Prisons.  And it says what the regional
directors are supposed to look at is the intent of the
Federal sentencing court or the goals of the criminal
justice system.
            So, you've got some guy deciding whether the
goals of the criminal justice system require this person
to serve an extra 10 years or not.
            MR. HAWKINS:  Well, Your Honor, I think that
what the -- the law requires is that the Bureau of
Prisons has to look at these factors under 3621(b), and
those program statements are trying to define what those
exact factors are.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I mean, doesn't it
seem strange to you that a Federal bureaucrat sitting --
a regional director -- and I guess there are about a
half dozen of them -- sits somewhere and decides whether
a defendant -- say there's a 10-year Federal sentence, a
10-year State sentence, and that person says, well, I
think he ought to serve another 10 years, or I think

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

11

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

he's done.
            MR. HAWKINS:  Well, Your Honor, to -- to be
clear, I mean, Mr. Setser is going to have to serve a
151 -- a 151-month term of imprisonment no matter what.
But the bureaucrat that -- that you're talking about,
the bureaucrat will be -- only be making that
determination after having the complete information
which the Federal judge --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I know, but --
but it's a big deal to be sentenced to, in my
hypothetical, another 10 years in prison.  I don't care
how much information the bureaucrat has.
            MR. HAWKINS:  Well, Your Honor, but still
that -- that person has the -- has the information
before it, and it's also subject to judicial review
under 2241.  I would point out that there is a process
where the petitioner can -- or the prisoner can ask for
this --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, it's judicial
review of what?  Not of the -- not of whether that was
the desire of the State court or not.  Judicial review
as to whether they abused their discretion.
            MR. HAWKINS:  Yes, Your Honor.  And I
believe that's -- that's the same discretion that the
court has when its deciding a sentence on direct appeal.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

12

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, you're going to make
a bureaucrat equal to a judge in making the most
important decision that a defendant faces:  how much
time he should spend in jail.  So, a bureaucrat, rather
than a judge, decides whether he's going to tack on a
year and a half, 5, or 10, or whether he's going to let
the defendant serve it concurrently?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, again, it -- it's
not the who for us, but the when.  And --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  It's not a -- it's not a
who or when, because the State court judge's
recommendation is not binding on BOP.  It has said that
repeatedly, hasn't it?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, I'm aware of no --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Just answer that
question.  Hasn't BOP said that a State court
recommendation is not binding on it?
            MR. HAWKINS:  That -- that is correct, Your
Honor.  But I would point to the fact that -- what that
-- I mean -- I guess --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, it can't be just who
-- it can't be just when.  It's who's going to make the
decision.
            MR. HAWKINS:  Well, yes, Your Honor.  But
the bureaucrat at least has all the information before

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

13

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

it.  And if we go to look to --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, isn't it true that
the bureaucrat used to make that decision not too long
ago?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Yes, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  When we had a parole
system.  Before we had the sentencing guidelines, it was
up to the Bureau of Prisons whether to give parole or
not, right?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Yes, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Some bureaucrat in the
Bureau of Prisons, I guess.
            MR. HAWKINS:  Yes, Your Honor, along with
good time credits --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's not unthinkable.
            MR. HAWKINS:  No, Your Honor, prior to the
passage of the SRA, the --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But wasn't the SRA
passed and this provision passed in part to take that
decision away from the bureaucrat?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Well, it was a -- it was
passed to take the decision away from the bureaucrat,
that the courts could not order a Federal sentence to
run concurrently with an undischarged State term of
imprisonment.  That gave that power back to the court,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

14

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

but --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, let's answer
Justice Scalia's point.  Wasn't the SRA passed in part
because of the dissatisfaction with the fact that the
parole board used to make this decision, and they wanted
to put it back in the hands of judges?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Well, that's part of the
reason, Your Honor, but in passage of 3621, it also
highlighted the fact that it was not seeking to take
away the bureaucratic authority that the Bureau of
Prisons have for designation.  And back to the --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I don't know why it
takes away from them on that score.  They can choose
whatever facility they want within the constraints
imposed by a judge in terms of the length of the
sentence.
            MR. HAWKINS:  Well, I mean -- I guess, yes,
Your Honor, that is part of it, but that only comes into
play when the first sentence does not apply and when the
court does not have the requisite information.  In our
estimation, it is better for the latter sentencing
entity, that with the most sentencing information, to be
able to make this -- this ultimate determination in --
in looking at the Federal court's views, versus allowing
a Federal judge who's prognosticating about what the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

15

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

sentence might be and issue a binding order.
            And if there are no further questions, I'll
reserve the remainder of my rebuttal time.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Jay.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM M. JAY
              ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT,
              IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONER
            MR. JAY:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            Federal district courts do decide how long a
defendant should be in prison for his Federal crime, but
for many years, both before and after the Sentencing
Reform Act, the Attorney General through the Bureau of
Prisons has decided where the sentence will be served
and when it shall commence.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I'm not clear on what the
-- what the Government's view of, whatever you want to
call it, inherent judicial sentencing power is.  You --
you -- before section 3584 was passed, there -- there
was the power on the part of the Federal courts to
decide whether sentences should run concurrently or
sequentially, right?
            MR. JAY:  Not with a State sentence, Your
Honor.  Before section 3584(a) was passed, a Federal

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

16

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

district court had no authority to specify that its
Federal sentence should run concurrently with a State
sentence that the defendant was already serving.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  How do you know?
            MR. JAY:  Well, that's --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, it did not -- what
authority it did have did not come from a statute,
right?
            MR. JAY:  Well, if it had had such
authority, Justice Scalia, it would have overridden the
Attorney General's authority.  That's why we know it
didn't have it.  That's why the --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Where is the Attorney
General's authority prescribed?
            MR. JAY:  The Attorney General's
authority --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  His authority to say where
the sentence will be served?
            MR. JAY:  Precisely, Justice Scalia.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Oh, that's -- that seems to
be quite --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  If you look that up --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- quite fanciful.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  It's pretty interesting,
because I did go back and look at the '79 Senate report

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

17

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

on S.1, which was the whole reform from beginning to
end, and my reading of that section suggests to me that
they thought past practice was exactly what they wrote
in this statute.  All right.  Now -- at least that's how
I read it.  Maybe I didn't read it carefully enough.
But I thought they were thinking that the Federal judge
does have the power to sentence concurrently or
consecutively with a term that a Federal court or a
State court has imposed in the past, but -- but you
can't do this monkey business that they're -- I agree
with you on that.
            There was nothing about trying to make
something concurrent or consecutive with a -- a State
term that hasn't yet been imposed.  You couldn't do it;
you can't do it; it just gets into a -- at least not
with a consecutive.
            MR. JAY:  Well, let me see if I can answer
both Justice Scalia and Justice Breyer.  There are cases
that we cite at page 16 of our reply brief.  Those same
cases, Justice Breyer, you may want to look at the
Senate report on the -- on what actually became section
3584, page 126 -- sorry -- page 127 and note 314, which
says that it changes the law.  It recognized that the
law -- specifically citing a Ninth Circuit decision,
which we also cite in our brief, because the Attorney

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

18

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

General has the authority to designate any facility,
Federal or State, and that's -- that is carried forward
today in section 3621(b).  Because the Attorney General
has the authority to designate any such facility, a
Federal court before the passage of section 3584(a) had
no authority to order that the Federal sentence commence
right away and that the defendant be allowed to serve it
while also serving his -- State sentence.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  He could recommend it.
He could recommend it, could he not?
            MR. JAY:  Absolutely, Justice Ginsburg.  He
could recommend it, just as he can today.  And --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You said Federal or
State.  Where does it say that in 3621?
            MR. JAY:  Section 3621(b), Your Honor.  If
you look at subsection (b) --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Yes.
            MR. JAY:  -- the second sentence, "the
Bureau may designate any available penal or correctional
facility" -- skip forward a little bit -- "whether
maintained by the Federal Government or otherwise."
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  In other words, what the
statute does -- it's phrased in terms of place, but it
really has consequences as to time.  Einstein would have
loved it:  You can't define space without time.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

19

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But -- but I take it that
it can also be retroactive.  If you have a prisoner who
has served -- has been sentenced in the Federal system,
then goes to the State and is serving in a State
facility, he then comes back to the BOP, the BOP can
retroactively say we designate the place of imprisonment
for the last 3 years as that State prison where you've
been serving and we credit you with time served; is that
the way it works?
            MR. JAY:  That is how it works.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Nunc pro tunc, right?
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  That -- that's an amazing
interpretation.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And you get that out of
this -- this lean language here?
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  That's an amazing
interpretation of the statute, but I understand that
that's the way it's being done.
            MR. JAY:  That is the way it's being done,
Justice Kennedy.  Indeed, every time the bureau
designates a Federal prison or a State prison, it's
after the person comes into Federal custody, except in
cases where the person voluntarily surrenders.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Or -- or what if

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

20

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

it's a situation where he goes into one of these prisons
that are run by a private entity, right?  It says
whether the Federal Government or otherwise, right?  And
so, maybe the Federal Government -- I don't know how
often it might do it -- they -- you use facilities that
are privately run, right?
            MR. JAY:  Privately run --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.  So, why --
            MR. JAY:  -- State facilities, Federal
facilities.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- isn't that what
they meant when they said "whether maintained by the
Federal Government or otherwise"?  I think if they
wanted to say State or Federal, that's what they would
have said.
            MR. JAY:  Mr. Chief Justice, Federal
inmates, since the passage of the first Federal crime in
1790, have served their time in State prisons.  There
were no Federal penitentiaries for more than 100 years.
The attorney -- service of a Federal sentence in State
prison was the norm, even after the construction of --
of Federal penitentiaries.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  It seems to me that the
question of how long someone should spend in prison,
which is what's involved in determining whether --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

21

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

deciding whether a sentence is going to be served
consecutively or concurrently, is very different from
determining where the sentence is going to be -- where a
sentence is going to be served.
            Isn't this a very strange reading of -- of
3621, to say that that grants the BOP the authority to
make this concurrent/consecutive determination?
            MR. JAY:  I don't think so at all, Justice
Alito.  Let me give two reasons why.  The first is that
before section 3584 was enacted, this -- the predecessor
of this statute, which was section 4082, was the reason
that Federal courts recognized that they didn't have the
power to prescribe concurrent treatment of a Federal
sentence with a previously existing State sentence.
That's one point.
            The second point is, as Mr. Hawkins
mentioned, the quantum of Federal punishment, a
punishment for the Federal offense, that's up to the
Federal district judge to prescribe; but where -- where
that time will be served and whether the time has to
commence before, after, or during the defendant's
service of another sentence, that's a where and when
question.  And where and when questions have always been
up to the Attorney General.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. Jay?

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

22

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. JAY:  Yes.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Can I -- can I take you back
to 3584?  So, 3584 talks about these two situations,
simultaneously imposed terms and undischarged terms, and
let's assume that all three sentences talk about only
those two situations.  The premise of your argument is
that, in talking about those two situations, Congress
rejected judicial authority when it came to a third
situation.  And I guess I want to find out from you why
that is.  I mean, I want to stipulate, I guess, that
nobody had this third situation in mind.  The third
situation is a very uncommon situation.  And so, just
assume with me that Congress simply just wasn't thinking
about this third situation.  That's an assumption of the
question.
            What should we do, then?  Why would we treat
this as exclusive?
            MR. JAY:  Well, I will -- I will assume with
you, Justice Kagan, although you know that I disagree,
that the -- that this is conscious.  But two points:
First, there was no inherent authority beforehand.  So,
Congress couldn't have been carrying forward existing
practice, because, as I've said, there was no inherent
authority for district courts to make this decision
before.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

23

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, let's just say
Congress just didn't know.  It was not on Congress's
radar screen.  Why would we treat this as exclusive as
to this third situation?
            MR. JAY:  You would do it this way because
the -- because the limitations are so clear and because,
as Mr. Hawkins said, there's a universe with sort of
three possible relationships.  Either the Federal term
comes before the State term, after the State term, or
two Federal sentences can come at the same time.  So,
Congress prescribed very carefully that if one of those
or if the second of those is met, then the terms may run
concurrently or consecutively.  But by allowing the
third, the only other possibility --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, now you're battling my
assumption.  You're suggesting that Congress must have
had this third situation in mind.  But I'm saying, no,
the third situation is peculiar, and Congress didn't
have it in mind.  Then what?
            MR. JAY:  Well, its peculiarity, Justice
Kagan, doesn't take away from the fact that if you let
this situation in, then the limitations have no meaning,
because if -- you know, if --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  You're talking
linguistically, but I thought one Congress probably did

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

24

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

have it in mind.  I agree with you about that.  But
leave that out.  How do you do it?  You are a Federal
judge.  The point of the Federal guideline is to create
a sentence with qualifications that reflects the real
conduct in the world that the defendant engaged in.  All
right?  So, we work that out.  That's now 3 years.
            Now, our problem is that the State judge may
eat up some of that 3 years or may make the sentence
concurrent when it should be consecutive, because the
conduct's different.  So, I, the Federal judge, say:
You are convicted of a drug crime; you get 3 years.  I
know there's a question here about whether there's a
separate gun crime.  That's State.  Now, I want these 3
years to run consecutive with the State conviction for a
separate behavior.  Okay?  Now, that's what I want.
            Now, if it's in the past, the State
sentence, I can do it.  But where it hasn't been
happening yet, how do I do it?  I say I want it
consecutive, but the State court judge who later will
have control of the case can say:  I put my extra 2
years and make it concurrent with the State sentence.
            You see?  It's a problem.  It's a practical
problem.  Now, maybe I'm wrong in what I've just said,
which is why I said it, because I'm prepared to have you
tell me I'm wrong, there is no practical problem.  But I

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

25

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

want to hear it.
            MR. JAY:  It's not a practical problem,
Justice Breyer, for a couple of reasons.
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  Good.
            MR. JAY:  Number one --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  That's why I asked.
            MR. JAY:  Number one, the judge doesn't
know -- you asked -- you asked us to assume that there
has been a conviction in the State, maybe just not --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No --
            MR. JAY:  Maybe just not --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  There has not been a
conviction.
            MR. JAY:  That just highlights my point.
There hasn't been a conviction yet, let alone a
sentence.  There may never be a conviction, and -- but
if the judge wants to guard against that eventuality,
the judge can make a recommendation.  And there are two
salutary things about making a recommendation rather
than a judgment.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  How does the judge stop the
State court judge later from making his conviction for a
separate form of behavior run concurrently with the
Federal sentence?  How does he stop that?  What power

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

26

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

does he have over State courts?
            MR. JAY:  I don't think I or either of my
friends who are going to argue today or -- are
suggesting that the Federal judge has power to order the
State court not to do something.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Correct.  Then how can he
stop it?
            MR. JAY:  Well, the way that sovereigns work
out who gets to punish defendants --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  My point --
            MR. JAY:  -- if they both want to punish --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  You may have missed my
point.  My point is because he can't stop it is why
you're right in this case.
            MR. JAY:  I am delighted to hear that you
think we're right, Justice Breyer.  But --
            (Laughter.)
            MR. JAY:  But I want to -- I do want to give
you an answer to your question about why this is not a
practical problem.  The Federal judge can give -- can
make a recommendation that says if he's convicted and if
he's sentenced to a particular term in the State court,
I recommend that the Bureau of Prisons not let him serve
them -- concurrently.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So that -- so that

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

27

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 years later after the defendant has served his
mandatory minimum sentence, your friend in the Bureau of
Prisons regional office is supposed to go look back and
see what the judge said 20 years ago?
            MR. JAY:  Judges make recommendations all
the time, Mr. Chief Justice.  They -- there is a section
of the --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I don't think that
is responsive to the point I just made, that they make
recommendations all the time.  I'm talking about the
effectiveness of the recommendation 20 years later.
            MR. JAY:  As the Court is aware, the
Administrative Office's standard form for the judgment
in a criminal case allows the judge to make
recommendations to the Bureau of Prisons.  So, this will
be in the judgment, the very judgment that the Bureau of
Prisons will be looking at, whether it's a week later or
20 years later.  And if --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Jay, what does the
"or" mean?  Maybe the judge -- it was 20 years ago;
maybe the judge said nothing.  Nevertheless, it's:  What
was the intent of the sentencing court or the goals of
the criminal justice system?
            MR. JAY:  Your Honor is reading from the
Bureau of Prisons policy statement.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

28

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Uh-huh.
            MR. JAY:  If you go on in that policy
statement, it alludes to other considerations that the
bureau looks at.  And what that maps onto is the factors
in section 3621(b).  And I can represent to the Court
that when -- when the -- when an inmate asks for
concurrent treatment in this fashion, the bureau's
central facility for designation and sentence
computation goes through those factors in an
individualized way and makes a -- makes a decision.
That then is reviewable.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Mr. Jay --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Do they take -- do they
take account of the -- the defendant's behavior in the
State facility?  Is that a factor?
            MR. JAY:  It can -- in Federal or State
custody, Justice Ginsburg, it may be a factor.  Yes.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Which is something that
the judge couldn't know.
            MR. JAY:  That -- that's certainly correct.
And on the flip side is that if the defendant has
behaved in an exemplary way, then either the judge --
the judge may indeed change his recommendation.  We've
cited a case in our brief where the -- where a judge --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I thought we tried to get

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

29

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

rid of all of that when we abolished the parole system.
I thought we tried to take away from the bureaucrats the
decision to let somebody out earlier because he's been a
good boy and hold him longer because he hasn't.
            MR. JAY:  Mr. Setser has been sentenced to
151 months for his Federal crime.  Nothing the Attorney
General does is going to shorten that in a way not
authorized by statute.  It's not -- it doesn't make the
sentence an indeterminant one.  It's about where he's
going to serve it.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I suppose --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Mr. Jay, there is some
force to your -- to Petitioner's argument that
federalism should be respected, that Federal courts and
the State judges and their individual wishes should be
respected and followed by BOP actually.  The system
you're proposing actually takes away from both Federal
judges control over the sentencing decision.
            If Federal judges recommend the consecutive
sentence, then the State judge can take that into
account in setting how much time they think is warranted
for their crime in addition or different from, and the
judge -- if he wants it to run concurrently the way
Justice Breyer said, he could just give a zero.  He
knows what the Federal judge wants.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

30

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You may answer
briefly.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  The bottom line --
            MR. JAY:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
            The -- the State judge can still know what
the Federal judge recommends.  If it's not -- it just
won't be binding under our view of the statute.  And in
any event, having the -- the second decisionmaker make
the decision armed with all the information is still
preferable to having a premature determination locked
in, in a judgment.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            MR. JAY:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Young.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF EVAN A. YOUNG
               ON BEHALF OF AMICUS CURIAE,
            IN SUPPORT OF THE JUDGMENT BELOW
            MR. YOUNG:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            As this Court stated nearly a century ago in
Ex parte United States, under our constitutional system
the right to impose the punishment provided by law is
judicial.
            Congress does not transfer such core
authority from one branch to another without clearly and

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

31

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

expressly saying so.  Neither section 3584 nor any other
provision of the Sentencing Reform Act even remotely
approaches the clarity that Congress would use if it
intended to restrict judicial sentencing in cases like
Setser's.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  The Government says that
the Federal courts never had that power anyway, so that
nothing is being restricted.  And they contest the cases
that you've cited as demonstrating the existence of that
power in the situation involved here to -- to determine
whether a future -- a sentence to be imposed in the
future by State courts will be concurrent or consecutive
with the Federal one.
            MR. YOUNG:  Against -- that is wrong,
because against a number of cases that we cite -- and I
would commend them to the Court -- in which Federal
judges previous to the Sentencing Reform Act
anticipatorily sentenced, the Government and Mr. Setser
have provided zero cases before the Sentencing Reform --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Nobody found that out in
1980 -- in 1980 or '79.  If you look through the Senate
report on that, they don't refer to any of those cases.
They write it as if it was just as Justice Scalia and
the -- and the Government said.
            And, honestly, my question really is the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

32

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

same one -- maybe I didn't put it clearly, but I think
you understood it -- that the reason that they want the
Federal judge to be able to shape his sentence in light
of other sentences that either the Federal courts or the
State courts have given in the past is because you can
do it so that a single behavior gets a single sentence
and a different behavior is going to be sentenced
consecutively, presumptively.
            But you just can't do that where the State
court hasn't yet acted, because -- at least you can't do
it in the consecutive case, because the State court
judge sees what you did, and he may decide:  I don't
want it to be consecutive.  So, here I am; I write in my
sentence to be served concurrently with the Federal
court sentence.
            Now, you can have every agency you want in
the Federal Government, but there's no way to get around
that.  You can't force that State judge to do something
different, and you can't muck around with your Federal
sentence in a way that will make it consecutive to a
State court sentence that says it's going to run
concurrent.
            So, there's a practical problem, and that's
why it's left out.  It's quite -- I mean, when I
finished reading it, I thought this is very logical.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

33

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. YOUNG:  Your Honor, I think --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Can you tell me what the
answer to that is?
            MR. YOUNG:  I think the answer is that it
turns much more on the order of imprisonment than the
order of sentencing, because the Federal court in Mr.
Setser's case, for instance, is imposing no obligation
whatsoever on the State.  The State imprisoned first --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't deny that there are
many instances where you could get it to work,
particularly where you're going concurrent.  I do deny
that there's -- it's all smooth sailing.  There are a
lot of cases you can't get it to work.  I don't want to
repeat myself again.  I've given you the example.  I
gave him the example.  And I want to know how you would
overcome that could be quite common situation where the
State judge hasn't done it yet; so, there's no way to
require the Federal court sentence to be served
consecutively, if the State judge decides it shouldn't
be.
            MR. YOUNG:  Well, let's take this very case,
for instance.  Mr. Setser was sentenced in Federal court
first, and the Federal court said:  I see that there is
coming a State probation revocation.  I want this
Federal sentence, which will be served last, to have no

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

34

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

credit for whatever happens in State court.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  He can do that.
            MR. YOUNG:  And that's all he did do.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Oh, I know.
            MR. YOUNG:  That's all that matters --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't deny there can be
some.  I say there is a concern that if he were to say
in a different case, I want the gun thing which is going
to State court to be consecutive, that he can't control
that.  Because the State court judge could say I want my
gun sentence, State, to run concurrently with Federal.
            MR. YOUNG:  What the State judge could not
do is to say I want this State sentence, which is going
to be served first, to run concurrent to the
later-served Federal sentence.  Because that would
require the Federal sovereign to let someone go.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Oh, well, now we're getting
awfully complicated.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. Young --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Actually, it becomes
easier than that.  The State court can't force the
Federal Bureau of Prisons to take the prisoner back,
correct?
            MR. YOUNG:  Can't force the Federal Bureau
of Prisons to do anything.  Release --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

35

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Exactly.  And so, all it
can do is sentence the defendant to whatever time it's
going to sentence the defendant.  The defendant serves
that time.  Then the Federal sovereign takes over and
does whatever the Federal judge said.
            MR. YOUNG:  Precisely, and --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Runs it consecutively or
concurrently.  Whatever the Federal judge said controls
in every situation.
            MR. YOUNG:  The Bureau of Prisons can
effectuate that order very easily once that's happened.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. Young, the Government
says that there are three situations in which this
consecutive/concurrent problem comes up.  This statute
deals with two of them.  And the Government wants --
argues that in dealing with two of them, it impliedly
stated a rule on the third.  What's the best argument --
what's your best argument against that?
            MR. YOUNG:  I think the best argument is
that the statute plainly does not withdraw any
authority.  It doesn't describe it at all.  What the
statute does -- in --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, I think that that's
not right.  It seems to me that the first sentence of
this statute grants authority to the courts in these two

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

36

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

situations.  And the second and third say what happens
when that authority isn't exercised.  The question I'm
struggling with -- and it's the same question I put to
Mr. Jay -- is why we should think that the grant of
authority over situation A and situation B is a denial
of authority over situation C?  So, what's your best
argument?
            MR. YOUNG:  Well, my best argument, assuming
the premise that it's a grant, which I think is not the
best way to read it, but if it's a grant of authority,
still the correct answer is it says nothing at all about
the anticipatory context.  And Congress must speak
clearly if it will withdraw power from the courts.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, it does to this
extent:  If it's two -- if the second sentence that
hasn't yet been imposed, but there's an indictment in
another Federal court, if there's two consecutive
prosecutions, the first judge can't say I want my
sentence to run consecutive to the one that may or may
not be imposed by another Federal judge.  That would not
be possible, right?
            MR. YOUNG:  I think it would not be
possible.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So, why should it -- if
the order is one way for successive Federal

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

37

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

prosecutions, why should it be different when the second
prosecution, instead of being Federal, is State?
            MR. YOUNG:  For several reasons, one of
which is -- I think it ties into Justice Breyer's
question.  If the Federal judge sentences first and
imprisons first, it could not impose a consecutive or
concurrent term as to the later-served State sentence
either.  The first imposed Federal sentence will
presumably be served first in the same Bureau of
Prisons.  And so, there's nothing for it yet to be
consecutive or concurrent to.
            A second answer is that all Federal
sentences are served under the jailer of the same
sovereign, the Federal; whereas in the anticipatory
context, we have two different systems.  And so, the
first sentencing federal judge is the only judge that
can compel the jailer of the Federal sovereign to either
credit or not to credit; whereas in the Federal/Federal
system, under the statute, the second judge is
explicitly given the power to alter the default rule.
So, in all Federal cases, either a default rule or a
judge will determine whether or not a credit should be
given to the defendant.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it will be the second
judge.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

38

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. YOUNG:  The second Federal judge can do
it, but the second State judge cannot, because this
statute can neither empower the State judge --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the State judge can
decide what's going to happen to the second sentence.
            MR. YOUNG:  If the second sentence is served
second.  But as in this case and many others, the second
sentence is served first.  And, consequently, the second
sentencing judge, the State judge in Mr. Setser's case,
has no power to determine whether or not that sentence,
which will be served first, will be consecutive or
concurrent.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What do you do --
            MR. YOUNG:  And I know there's a lot of
firsts and seconds going on here, but the point is --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But what do you do with
the -- the argument that the judge who anticipates a
second sentence may be wrong?  He doesn't know what that
will be.  And when I asked, how does the bureau make
these judgments -- does it take into account the conduct
of the prisoner in the State facility -- that's
something that the judge who sentences first can't
possibly know.
            MR. YOUNG:  It's true, but the same
prisoner -- if the State sentence had happened 10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

39

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

minutes before the Federal sentence, the Federal judge
would have plenary authority to impose a consecutive
sentence, even though it would be served last.  And all
of that conduct that will happen in the State system
would be irrelevant.  The sentence happened at the time
of sentencing.
            Now, there is a statutory provision that
does describe exactly how the Bureau of Prisons should
interact with the courts in the context of a sentence
that needs to be changed, and that's section 3582(c).
And in that statute, the -- the judge will remain the
decider because the Bureau of Prisons goes as a
petitioner and says to the court there are compelling
and extraordinary reasons to modify this sentence.
            And then the court, always in the position
of the decider and using the section 3553(a) factors,
will decide whether or not the Bureau of Prisons'
petition should be granted.  But never in any statute is
the Bureau of Prisons given the authority to use the
sentencing factors under section 3553.
            And, in fact, the sentencing factors that
the Government contends would allow it to make a
sentencing determination under section 3621, page 2a of
the Government's merits brief, starts off with the very
preliminary requirement.  And I'll read from the second

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

40

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

sentence of 3621(b):  "The Bureau may designate any
available penal or correctional facility that meets
minimum standards of health and habitability established
by the Bureau."  Which means that if this is the power
that the Bureau of Prisons has to make a sentence
concurrent, a State prisoner in a true hellhole would
not be able to get a concurrent sentence.  The person
most in need of that judicial mercy would be precluded
by statute if we subject this statute to anything like
the textual rigor that the Government wants to subject
3584 to.
            Plainly, what 3621(b) does is articulate a
set of principles that allows the Bureau of Prisons to
decide to which prisons defendants should go, not how
long they must stay there.  That is an element of
punishment, which is quintessentially judicial.  This
Court said in Ex parte United States -- it's been quoted
and cited by courts across this country for a hundred
years.  And, in fact, in that case, it was said to be so
historically established that it hardly merited comment.
And now --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, I'd be a little
worried in this case at deciding whether section -- what
is that section -- the place of imprisonment, section
3621(b), whether that does or does not give the power to

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

41

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the Bureau of Prisons, the power that they've assumed
for many, many years.  Do we have to decide that
question here?  I didn't realize I was deciding that.  I
thought I was just deciding whether -- whether the
judge, the sentencing judge, has the power to impose,
say, a consecutive sentence, say my sentence will run
consecutively to a State court sentence that has not yet
been imposed.  I thought that was all I had to decide.
            MR. YOUNG:  That is all you have to decide,
but in so deciding, you're confronting the argument that
the Government makes which is:  No, no; Congress has
exclusively vested this sentencing function in us.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't think you have to.
I mean, maybe we do have to get to that.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, somebody has to make
that call.
            MR. YOUNG:  Should it be the judge or the
jailer?
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, if you say -- it's
either the judge or the jailer.  There's nobody -- who
else is going to make it?
            MR. YOUNG:  That's precisely the point.  And
the argument --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  So, if you say the judge
can't, it's going to be the Bureau of Prisons.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

42

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. YOUNG:  Precisely.  And to say that
Congress has never given it to the Bureau of Prisons
necessarily means that it is the judge.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, let me ask you this
then:  Is it -- is it -- if we want the judge to be able
to say this particular prisoner will serve his Federal
sentence after the State gun sentence is served or,
alternatively, with the State gun sentence, the 3621
says that -- that the judge can, if that sentence, State
sentence, has not yet been imposed, we don't know what
it is -- we don't know if it will be imposed.  We don't
know what they're going to say.  We don't know whether
they're going to sentence him to -- count his time, time
served in the Federal jail.  I mean, I don't know what
they're going to say in Federal prison.
            But he can write down what he wants, as (4)
is "any statement by the court that imposed the
sentence."  A statement "concerning the purposes for
which the sentence of imprisonment" has been imposed.
You would say I'm trying to get a single behavior
punished once with 4 years, and then that separate
behavior I would like punished by 2 years more.  Okay?
            So, you write it down and the Bureau of
Prisons follows it.  And if they don't follow it, they
could get reversed by a district court, abuse of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

43

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

discretion.  Now, will that solve the problem.
            MR. YOUNG:  It doesn't, Your Honor, because
what that factor allows the Bureau of Prisons to do is
to decide, based upon the judgment here, is this someone
who needs to be in the super-max or is it someone that
can be in a much more minimum security type prison?
            None of this has anything to do with the
determination of how long someone should spend in
prison, 10 years, 20 years.  The Government says it's
all the same; you'll serve your Federal prison term.  It
doesn't seem that from the perspective of an identically
situated person who will spend 20 years rather than 10
years of his life in prison.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Am -- am I correct, Mr.
Young, that if -- if the Federal sentencing judge is
erroneous in his prediction of what the State court
later sentencing will do, that his order, based upon
that erroneous prediction, can be altered upon appeal by
the Bureau of Prisons?
            MR. YOUNG:  That's correct.  And the only
situation in which a prisoner would be harmed is if the
Federal judge says, I want it to be consecutive, and
then the Bureau of Prisons comes in later, 20 years
later after he is done with the State term, let's say,
and says, boy, we would have made this concurrent, and

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

44

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

here are all reasons why.  Congress has provided a means
to do that, section 3582(c).  Go to the Federal court as
the petitioner, not the decider.  Congress did not
unilaterally give the Bureau of Prisons the power it is
now claiming.  And so, for that reason --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm interested in
pursuing the point Justice Breyer raised.  I am troubled
by the idea that someone in the Bureau of Prisons makes
this determination, but I -- I wonder how that -- how
that helps you.
            You said it's either the jailer or the
judge, and, therefore, you do have to decide it.  But
maybe it's either the first judge or the second judge.
            MR. YOUNG:  In -- in --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Why -- why isn't --
doesn't it make sense to say that the Federal court
doesn't -- whoever is second can always tailor their
sentence to what they want.  Whoever is first just has
to give the sentence that he or she thinks is
appropriate.
            MR. YOUNG:  Because in the dual sovereignty
context, that second sentencing judge cannot compel the
Federal sovereign to either reduce --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Doesn't compel --
no, doesn't compel the Federal sovereign.  He would say:

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

45

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Look, I want to give 10 years.
            MR. YOUNG:  Right.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I see you've already
got, you know, a -- a 15-year sentence under the
Federal, but I don't want it to be 25 years.  So, I'm
going to, in fact, just give you a 5-year sentence.
            Do understand what I'm making --
            MR. YOUNG:  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Whoever the second
judge is can figure out exactly how long he thinks the
sentence should run and give a sentence accordingly.
            MR. YOUNG:  That cannot be the case if it's
a State court and the State court does not know, with
respect to a later-served Federal sentence, whether or
not the time will be credited.  So, in other words, in
your example --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, but I suppose in the
Chief's example a super-cautious State court judge would
say:  I see you've got a 15-year sentence here.  I don't
know if it's going to be concurrent or consecutive.  So,
I'll sentence you to nothing at all.
            I mean, I suppose -- which shows that
there -- if -- if you follow your rule, you may be
infringing on the Federal balance, but then you would
say the BOP can do the same thing.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

46

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. YOUNG:  In the case in which the -- the
State judge says, I want it to be zero, then we know
that the State relinquishes its custody.  And whatever
happens later in Federal prison, a pardon, let's say, or
a reversal, that's -- that's gone and done for the State
no longer has the claim on him.  They've sentenced him
to zero.
            If the State judge knows, however, that the
Federal court has sentenced someone to 5 years and it
will be consecutive because it's served last to whatever
the State judge imposes, the State judge now is in a
position, and only in that situation, is in a position
to say, okay, if I give you 2 years, you will spend 7,
because I know that the Federal sentence will be
consecutive.
            On the other hand, if the curtain is only
pulled up by the Bureau of Prisons at the end and the
State judge says I want you to have 10 years, I'll
sentence you to 5, and the Bureau of Prisons pulls up
the curtain, it's concurrent.  Then only 5 years has
been sentenced.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, you're saying that
your position is really more consistent with the Federal
balance because it allows the State to know what it's
deal with?

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

47

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. YOUNG:  Precisely.  The only way to
really respect the second sentencing State judge is to
provide clarity, rather than to force that State judge
to guess, to sentence in the dark, about what will
actually happen to this defendant later on when he
eventually, after State confinement, is transported to
the Federal prisons.
            This case is only about that situation in
which the first sentence is imposed by the Federal
court, but before the Federal sentence is enforced, all
of the State -- that's why the Federal bookends, I
describe it.  We start with the Federal sentence, and we
end with the imposition, the service of the Federal
service.
            And in between those two things, the State
sentencing and imprisonment occurs.  And so, the State
judge cannot make his sentence be concurrent or
consecutive to the Federal sentence, because the Federal
sentence hasn't been imposed yet.  Consequently --
hasn't been served yet.  Consequently, providing that
State judge with knowledge about what will happen is the
only way to give that State judge the respect the State
judge needs and requires to be able to implement State
goals in a meaningful way.  Otherwise, it's a guess.
            As you heard, the Bureau of Prisons does not

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

48

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

follow, as a matter of course, a second sentencing State
judge's preference that it be concurrent or consecutive.
That is something that the Bureau of Prisons, as
responsive to the Federal courts, Federal sovereign,
will decide based upon what happens in the Federal
court.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  This is perhaps something
that I should have asked the Solicitor General, but do
you have any idea how often this situation comes up?
            MR. YOUNG:  I don't have specific numbers.
It's difficult to find them, but I think it's
increasing.  And the reason for that is the explosion of
Federal criminal law.  There's still far more State and
local law enforcement officers in this country.  And the
doctrine why these -- why these sentences can be imposed
first but served last is because of the primary custody
rule.  Because a local or State law enforcement officer
will most likely arrest someone whose act will violate
the laws of both sovereigns, that person will be in
State custody.
            We now have so many more offenses under the
Federal Criminal Code than we did even back when
Congress passed the Sentencing Reform Act, which goes,
perhaps, to Justice Kagan's point.  Congress may not
really have been thinking about this at all.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

49

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE KAGAN:  So, is there evidence one
way or the other on that question, whether this
situation was in any meaningful sense before the
Congress?
            MR. YOUNG:  Everything is silent.  I think
it was not.  As to the question about whether courts
could impose concurrent consecutive sentences, what the
report says, footnotes 310, 314, 318, pages 126, 127,
and 129 of the sentencing report, there were some courts
that thought that a prior statute stopped them from
imposing only concurrent sentences in the dual
sovereignty context.
            Congress made very clear -- in fact, it
cited by name United States v. Segal, one of the cases
the Government cites for this proposition, as being
incorrect.  We want to make it clear, Congress says in a
report, you can impose concurrent sentences, but all
along consecutive sentences were imposed anticipatorily.
            And so, this is sort of like, you know, the
rule that someone cannot have M&M's at all being held to
mean that you cannot have candy after dinner if you have
Snickers after dinner every night.  Once you remove the
obstacle to having M&M's, then presumably you can have
them after dinner as well.  There was no rule that you
couldn't have candy after dinner.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

50

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            There was no rule that Federal courts could
not sentence anticipatorily.  There was simply a
statutory bar that some courts thought stopped them from
imposing concurrent sentences in the dual sovereignty
context.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, in order for you to
prevail, I think we -- is it correct, we would have to
determine that there was this authority inherent in the
judiciary prior to the enactment of this statute?
            MR. YOUNG:  I don't think that that is
necessarily true.  I think it makes it much easier.  And
there can be no question that concurrent and consecutive
sentencing is inherently and quintessentially judicial.
This court in Oregon v. Ice only two terms ago regarded
it that way.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Yes, with respect to Federal
sentences, certainly that's true.  But with respect to
Federal and State sentences, it may be, as you
suggested, that this just didn't come up very often
until the enactment probably of the Federal drug laws
and -- and a few other statutes that created offenses
where you have -- where the same conduct would
constitute a violation of both Federal and State law.
And so, you have this situation coming up with greater
frequency.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

51

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. YOUNG:  That's true.  With greater
frequency, it did happen, and the courts recognized this
and, without any concern, sentenced anticipatorily.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But -- but if one had -- you
know, what I take as the view of Justice Alito's
question is that there was no -- no practice supporting
courts sentencing in this way.  It -- it just wasn't
done.  Mostly, it wasn't on anybody's radar screen that
this was a significant issue.  What would we do then, if
we thought Congress didn't speak to it, but we also
didn't see a past practice inconsistent with what the
Government is suggesting?
            MR. YOUNG:  In that case, if the choice is
between the judge and the jailer, I think the choice is
clear.  If Congress did not specifically say that
something as quintessentially judicial as deciding how
long someone would spend in prison must be decided by
the executive branch, questionable whether it could, but
unless it explicitly said this is how we want it to
happen, there can be no doubt that imposing extra
punishment or withdrawing punishment is so judicial in
nature that, even if Congress didn't think about it and
explicitly address the problem, the tie certainly has to
go to the judge.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No, it isn't a tie.  It's

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

52

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

-- I mean, there's one thing on each side.  On your side
is the fact that the sentencing judge, Federal, is
trying to figure out his own sentence, and he does --
either he does want or he doesn't want that particular
individual to serve additional time, should a State
court judge later decide on some related or unrelated
matter.  All right?
            And if that were all that was at issue, and
the choice is between his saying -- just doing it,
writing it in the sentence, or he's writing down his
reasons what he'd like to have happen and letting the
Bureau implement that as best they can under the section
we are talking about.  That's on the one side.  And that
says let the judge do it; don't give the implementation.
            On the other side is to let the judge do it
risks complex interference with the second to sentence,
who is the State court judge.
            It may be you're right that there's some way
of working it out, but it sounds complicated to me,
particularly in -- in the consecutive case.
            So, we have federalism principles on one
hand, versus the judge, versus the bureaucracy on the
other.  And so, it isn't so easy.  That's -- that's why
I think this is not such an easy case.
            MR. YOUNG:  Well, let me address what the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

53

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

anticipatory sentencing, the Federal judge, how he could
possibly interfere with the State.  I don't think that
he can if the State is sentencing second and imprisoning
first.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No, no.  It's the State
court judge that wants to sentence a person to an
unrelated offense --
            MR. YOUNG:  Right.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- but he wants -- he
decides he wants it to run -- concurrently with the --
ongoing Federal sentence.  There's no way to stop it.
            MR. YOUNG:  Well, the question -- that's --
that's the key point.  If it's an ongoing Federal
sentence, I certainly agree.  But the point here is his
Federal sentence hasn't begun.  Setser doesn't begin to
serve --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  Then you -- but
you can't break this thing down.  Either they have the
power in the Federal district court under this
particular provision, with all its presumptions, to run
this mechanism, the one that's in the statute, in
respect to State court sentences that have not yet been
imposed or they do not have that power.  We can't break
it down and say sometimes you have it, and sometimes you
don't.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

54

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. YOUNG:  If the State court sentence has
not been imposed and will run second, a Federal court
can say consecutive or concurrent, but it wouldn't have
any meaning.  Just as the State court, if it had tried
to bar the Federal Bureau of Prisons from keeping
someone, would have no meaning.  There's nothing for it
to be consecutive or concurrent to, if it's the first
sentence being served.
            And so, in -- in that regard, I think the
key point is a Federal court cannot say, I'm the first
judge to sentence and my sentence will immediately
begin; I want it to be consecutive to another State -- a
future State sentence.  It wouldn't mean anything,
because the State would get that prisoner after he
satisfied his Federal term, and the State can do what it
wants.  Let him go, keep him longer.  That's the dual
sovereignty principle.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  It can't -- it
can't if, for example, they're dealing with a mandatory
minimum.  Right?  If the State court judge has to
sentence the person to 10 years, then your explanation
falls apart.
            MR. YOUNG:  If State law has a particular
requirement as Federal law in some cases -- 924(c)
does -- then that's the way dual sovereignty works as

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

55

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

well.  But there is never a situation in which a State
judge is worse off by having the knowledge of what the
Federal court will sentence -- has sentenced and how
that sentence will be imposed.
            Again, if there's a problem with it, the
Bureau of Prisons has a way to solve it, and it's
through section 3582(c).  It's not through a unilateral
determination, 20 years later perhaps, seeking the
advice of a judge.  Maybe the advice of the judge is
provided at the time of sentencing.  And if it can do
that, there's no reason why it couldn't be an order that
can be enforced rather than a piece of advice that is
given at the time of sentencing.
            Judges decide how much punishment someone
should receive.  In Federal court, Federal judges decide
how long someone should spend in the Federal Bureau of
Prisons.  State courts can't do it, but they can adjust
sentences within the strictures of State law to account
for what they know is coming if Federal courts are able
to provide that advice.
            And if they cannot decide that issue and
advise the State court judge of what will happen, then
there are situations that will occur when the Bureau of
Prisons administers these sentences, and there's no
question about that either.  But the point is there is

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

56

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

never a situation in which a judge, able and willing --
able to follow the section 3553(a) factors and willing
to impose that sentence, is doing something that will be
worse for the defendant or worse for the States than if
he does not do it.
            You contrast the -- the two situations that
two equally situated people would be in.  On the one
hand, sentencing in open court by an Article III judge
subject to the section 3553(a) factors with direct
review in the courts for reasonableness.  On the other
hand, sentencing by administrator without any of those
salutary procedural protections, without direct review
in the courts, and based on factors that determine to
which prison someone should go, not how long they must
stay there for purposes of punishment.
            And for that reason alone, if for none
other, the Court should affirm the judgment because it
allows district judges, subject to their wise exercise
and sound exercise of discretion, to make these
sentences to clarify things upfront for everyone:  the
defendant, the State courts, and the Bureau of Prisons.
            Twenty years, this country has had half of
the circuits following this practice, and there's not
one case cited on the other side showing that any
mal-administration of justice has resulted, any lack of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

57

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

clarity, any problems with respect to how these
sentences are enforced.
            And that's because it does the opposite.
Allowing judges who are able, in cases like Setser's, no
matter how much time the State gives for probation
revocation, no Federal credit should be given to it.  He
knows enough.  He knows everything he needs to know to
make that sentence.  He made it.  It's effectuated by
the Bureau of Prisons.  The Government has not said once
that it cannot enforce that sentence.
            And to the extent that Setser wishes to
challenge how the Bureau of Prisons credits the State
order, the mechanism to do that is to exhaust his
administration -- administrative remedies in the BOP and
then seek judicial review to determine whether that
calculation was done rationally and fairly.
            This appeal is not the place for that.  This
appeal is to determine whether district courts never
have such authority.
            I thank the Court.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Hawkins, you have 2 minutes remaining.
          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JASON D. HAWKINS
               ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
            MR. HAWKINS:  Thank you.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

58

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            Justice Breyer, if I could go back to your
hypothetical, I think that the way that the Federal
judge can get this accomplished is simply by waiting.
            After -- after the -- the conviction, Your
Honor, they can send a State prisoner back down to State
court, allow for that State sentence to be imposed, and
then he can come back into Federal custody.  And in that
situation, that is when the court has the authority to
issue this binding order.  That is the -- because it has
all of the information.
            And -- and I would also --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  That's preferable, to
clog the judicial system with untold number of Federal
convictions that have not been reduced to judgment?
That's preferable to giving judges or recognizing their
power to state their views up front?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, the judge can
state the views -- her views up front in a
recommendation.  It cannot do so if it doesn't know all
the facts.  It cannot bind --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Could you tell me what
facts would affect the sentence here?  The judge here
very clearly believed that some of the State charges
overlapped and some didn't.  And so, it ran some
consecutive to one set of State charges and concurrent

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

59

to the other.
            What are the facts with respect to the
defendant that the Federal court needed to know?
            MR. HAWKINS:  Your Honor, I think in looking
at 3584, it may well seem reasonable for the Federal
court to have done this, but the -- the fact is, is that
Congress drew a bright line, and he has to be subject to
this undischarged term of imprisonment.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            MR. HAWKINS:  Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The case is
submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

A

able 6:10 14:23
32:3 40:7 42:5
47:23 55:19
56:1,2 57:4

abolished 29:1
above-entitled

1:11 59:14
Absolutely

18:11

abuse 42:25
abused 11:22
accomplished

58:3

account 28:14
29:21 38:20
55:18
ACE 1:3
act 3:12 15:14
31:2,17 48:18
48:23

acted 32:10
addition 29:22
additional 8:10

address 51:23

52:5

52:25

adequate 8:25
adjust 55:17
administers

administration

55:24

57:14

administrative
27:13 57:14
administrator

56:11

55:20

advice 55:9,9,12

advise 55:22
advocate 7:19
affect 58:22
affirm 56:17
agency 32:16
ago 13:4 27:4,20

30:20 50:14

agree 17:10 24:1

53:14

Alito 6:15 7:1,21

9:3,5 20:23
21:9 48:7 50:6
50:16

Alito's 51:5
allow 6:11 7:7

39:22 58:6
allowed 18:7
allowing 14:24

23:13 57:4
allows 27:14
40:13 43:3
46:24 56:18
alludes 28:3
alter 37:20
altered 43:18
alternatively

42:8

19:17

amicus 1:19
2:11 30:16
answer 5:6
12:15 14:2
17:17 26:19
30:1 33:3,4
36:11 37:12

anticipates

38:17

anticipatorily
31:18 49:18
50:2 51:3
anticipatory
36:12 37:14
53:1

anybody's 51:8
anyway 31:7
apart 54:22
appeal 11:25

43:18 57:17,18

appendix 10:2
applies 4:15
apply 14:19
appointed 1:20
approaches 31:3
appropriate

amazing 19:13

1:16

Official
Official

60

44:20

argue 26:3
argues 35:16
arguing 7:5
argument 1:12
2:2,5,9,13 3:3
3:7 15:6 22:6
29:13 30:15
35:17,18,19
36:7,8 38:17
41:10,23 57:23

armed 30:9
arrest 48:18
Article 56:8
articulate 40:12
asked 25:7,9,9

38:19 48:8

asks 28:6
Assistant 1:14

assume 22:5,13

22:18 25:9
assumed 41:1
assumes 5:5
assuming 36:8
assumption

22:14 23:16
attorney 15:14
16:11,13,15
17:25 18:3
20:20 21:24
29:6

Austin 1:19
authority 3:13

4:15 14:10
16:1,7,10,11
16:14,16,17
18:1,4,6 21:6
22:8,21,24
30:25 35:21,25
36:2,5,6,10
39:2,19 50:8
57:19 58:8

authorized 29:8
available 18:19

40:2

aware 12:14

27:12

awfully 34:18
a.m 1:13 3:2

59:13

B

b 18:16 36:5
back 13:25 14:6

14:11 16:25
19:6 22:2 27:3
34:22 48:22
58:1,5,7

balance 45:24

46:24

bar 50:3 54:5
based 43:4,17
48:5 56:13

battling 23:15
bear 3:20
beginning 17:1
begun 53:15
behalf 2:4,7,11
2:15 3:8 15:7
30:16 57:24
behaved 28:22
behavior 24:15

25:24 28:14
32:6,7 42:20
42:22

believe 3:18

4:14 5:15 6:6
6:13,24 10:1
11:24

believed 58:23
believes 9:15
best 35:17,18,19

36:6,8,10
52:12

better 7:6,15

14:21

big 11:10
bind 6:7 58:20
binding 12:12

12:17 15:1
30:7 58:9

bit 18:20
board 14:5

bookends 47:11
BOP 12:12,16
19:6,6 21:6
29:16 45:25
57:14

bottom 30:3
bound 6:8 9:6,9

9:19

boy 29:4 43:25
branch 30:25

51:18

break 53:18,23
Breyer 16:22,24
17:18,20 23:24
25:3,5,7,11,13
25:22 26:6,10
26:12,16 29:24
31:20 33:2,9
34:2,4,6,17
40:22 41:13
42:4 44:7
51:25 53:5,9
53:17 58:1
Breyer's 37:4
brief 9:25 10:3

17:19,25 28:24
39:24

briefly 30:2
briefs 9:22
bright 59:7
bureau 6:8,10

7:5,15,20 9:5,8
10:7,15 13:8
13:12 14:10
15:14 18:19
19:21 26:23
27:2,15,16,25
28:4 34:22,24
35:10 37:9
38:19 39:8,12
39:17,19 40:1
40:4,5,13 41:1
41:25 42:2,23
43:3,19,23
44:4,8 46:17
46:19 47:25
48:3 52:12

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

Official

61

54:5 55:6,16
55:23 56:21
57:9,12

bureaucracy

52:22

bureaucrat

10:20 11:5,6
11:12 12:2,4
12:25 13:3,11
13:20,22

bureaucratic

14:10

bureaucrats

29:2

bureau's 28:7
business 17:10

C

C 2:1 3:1 36:6
calculation

57:16

call 15:19 41:16
candy 49:21,25
care 4:19 11:11
carefully 17:5

23:11

carried 18:2
carrying 22:22
case 3:4,11 6:5

7:13 8:15
24:20 26:14
27:14 28:24
32:11 33:7,21
34:8 38:7,9
40:19,23 45:12
46:1 47:8
51:13 52:20,24
56:24 59:11,13

cases 17:18,20
19:24 31:4,8
31:15,19,22
33:13 37:21
49:14 54:24
57:4

central 28:8
century 30:20
certainly 28:20

50:17 51:23
53:14

challenge 57:12
change 28:23
changed 39:10
changes 17:23
characteristics

9:12

charges 8:5,5,8

58:23,25

Chief 3:3,9 9:16

9:18 10:4,19
11:9 15:4,9
18:13,17 19:25
20:8,11,16
26:25 27:6,8
29:11 30:1,4
30:12,13,14,18
44:6,15,24
45:3,9 54:18
57:21 59:9,11

Chief's 45:18
choice 51:13,14

52:9

choose 14:13
Circuit 17:24
circuits 4:19

56:23

circumstance

circumstances

9:11

4:25

cite 17:19,25

31:15

cited 9:21 28:24

31:9 40:18
49:14 56:24

cites 49:15
citing 17:24
claim 46:6
claiming 44:5
clarify 56:20
clarity 31:3 47:3

57:1

clear 11:3 15:17
23:6 49:13,16
51:15

clearly 30:25
32:1 36:13
58:23

clog 58:13
Code 48:22
come 3:15 16:7
23:10 50:19
58:7

comes 5:16

14:18 19:6,23
23:9 35:14
43:23 48:9
coming 33:24
50:24 55:19

commence
15:16 18:6
21:21

commend 31:16
comment 40:20
common 33:16
compel 37:17
44:22,24,25

compelling

complete 7:12

39:13

11:7

complex 52:16
complicated
34:18 52:19
computation

concern 34:7

28:9

51:3

concerning

42:18

concerns 3:11
conclusion 3:17
concurrent 8:6
17:13 21:13
24:9,21 28:7
31:12 32:22
33:11 34:14
37:7,11 38:12
40:6,7 43:25
45:20 46:20
47:17 48:2
49:7,11,17

50:4,12 54:3,7
58:25

concurrently
6:23 7:4 8:21
12:7 13:24
15:22 16:2
17:7 21:2
23:13 25:24
26:24 29:23
32:14 34:11
35:8 53:10

concurrent/co...

21:7

conduct 24:5
38:20 39:4
50:22

conduct's 24:10
confinement

47:6

confronting

41:10

22:7,13,22
23:2,11,16,18
23:25 30:24
31:3 36:12
41:11 42:2
44:1,3 48:23
48:24 49:4,13
49:16 51:10,15
51:22 59:7

Congress's 23:2
conscious 22:20
consecutive

17:13,16 24:9
24:14,19 29:19
31:12 32:11,13
32:20 34:9
36:17,19 37:6
37:11 38:11
39:2 41:6
43:22 45:20
46:10,15 47:18
48:2 49:7,18
50:12 52:20
54:3,7,12
58:25

Alderson Reporting Company

Congress 3:12

construction

consecutively
3:14 4:6 7:4
8:6,21 17:8
21:2 23:13
32:8 33:19
35:7 41:7

consecutive/co...

35:14

consequence 6:4
consequences

18:24

consequently

38:8 47:19,20
considerations

28:3

consistent 46:23
constitute 50:23
constitutional

30:21

constraints

14:14

20:21

contends 39:22
contest 31:8
context 4:13
36:12 37:15
39:9 44:22
49:12 50:5
contrast 56:6
control 24:20
29:18 34:9
controls 35:8
convicted 24:11

26:21

conviction 24:14
25:10,14,16,17
25:23 58:4
convictions

58:14

core 30:24
correct 5:22
12:18 26:6
28:20 34:23
36:11 43:14,20
50:7

correctional

18:19 40:2
counsel 3:25
15:4 30:12
57:21 59:9
count 42:13
country 40:18
48:14 56:22

couple 25:3
course 48:1
court 1:1,12,21

3:10,13,17
4:15 5:17 6:7
6:22,24 7:8,23
8:7,22 10:9
11:21,25 12:11
12:16 13:25
14:20 15:10
16:1 17:8,9
18:5 24:19
25:23 26:5,22
27:12,22 28:5
30:19,20 31:16
32:10,11,15,21
33:6,18,22,23
34:1,9,10,21
36:17 39:13,15
40:17 41:7
42:17,25 43:16
44:2,16 45:13
45:13,18 46:9
47:10 48:6
50:14 52:6,17
53:6,19,22
54:1,2,4,10,20
55:3,15,22
56:8,17 57:20
58:6,8 59:3,6

15:11,21 21:12
22:24 26:1
29:14 31:7,12
32:4,5 35:25
36:13 39:9
40:18 48:4
49:6,9 50:1,3
51:2,7 55:17
55:19 56:10,13

courts 13:23

Official

62

56:21 57:18
court's 14:24
cover 4:21
create 24:3
created 50:21
credit 6:3,14,16
6:20,25 19:9
34:1 37:18,18
37:22 57:6

credited 45:15
credits 13:14

57:12

crime 9:12

15:12 20:17
24:11,13 29:6
29:22

criminal 10:9,12
27:14,23 48:13
48:22

curiae 1:19 2:11

30:16

curtain 46:16,20
custody 19:23

28:17 46:3
48:16,20 58:7

D

D 1:14 2:3,14
3:1,7 57:23

Dallas 1:15
dark 47:4
days 6:13
deal 11:10 46:25
dealing 35:16

54:19

deals 35:15
decide 15:11,22

32:12 38:5
39:17 40:14
41:2,8,9 43:4
44:12 48:5
52:6 55:14,15
55:21

decided 15:15

decider 39:12,16

51:17

44:3

decides 10:22
12:5 33:19
53:10

deciding 10:11

11:25 21:1
40:23 41:3,4
41:10 51:16
decision 7:2,16

9:7 12:3,23
13:3,20,22
14:5 17:24
22:24 28:10
29:3,18 30:9
decisionmaker

30:8

default 5:16

37:20,21

defendant 3:19
5:1 6:5 9:12
10:23 12:3,7
15:12 16:3
18:7 24:5 27:1
28:21 35:2,3,3
37:23 47:5
56:4,21 59:3
defendants 7:7

26:9 40:14
defendant's
21:21 28:14
Defender 1:15
define 10:17

18:25

delighted 26:15
demonstrating

31:9

denial 36:5
deny 33:9,11

Department

34:6

1:17

describe 35:21

39:8 47:12

designate 18:1,4

18:19 19:7
40:1

designates 19:22
designation

14:11 28:8
desire 11:21
deter 8:25
determination
7:8,23 8:23,24
11:7 14:23
21:7 30:10
39:23 43:8
44:9 55:8

determine 31:10

37:22 38:10
50:8 56:13
57:15,18

determining
20:25 21:3

difference 5:25

6:5,12

different 4:5,19
5:9 21:2 24:10
29:22 32:7,19
34:8 37:1,15
difficult 48:11
dinner 49:21,22

49:24,25

direct 11:25

56:9,12

director 10:21
directors 10:8
directs 8:22
disagree 22:19
discretion 11:22

11:24 43:1
56:19

dissatisfaction

14:4

district 3:13
15:11 16:1
21:19 22:24
42:25 53:19
56:18 57:18
doctrine 48:15
doing 52:9 56:3
doubt 51:20
dozen 10:22
drew 59:7
drug 8:4,5,8
24:11 50:20

Alderson Reporting Company

dual 44:21 49:11
50:4 54:16,25

D.C 1:8,17
E
E 2:1 3:1,1
earlier 29:3
easier 34:21

50:11

easily 35:11
Easterbrook

4:18

easy 52:23,24
eat 24:8
effectiveness

27:11

effectuate 35:11
effectuated 57:8
Einstein 18:24
either 3:21 8:15

23:8 26:2
28:22 32:4
37:8,17,21
41:20 44:11,13
44:23 52:4
53:18 55:25
element 40:15
empower 38:3
enacted 21:10
enactment 50:9

50:20

enforce 57:10
enforced 47:10

55:12 57:2
enforcement

48:14,17

engaged 24:5
entitled 6:14,16

6:19,25

entity 14:22

20:2

equal 12:2
equally 56:7
erroneous 43:16

43:18

ESQ 1:14,16,19

2:3,6,10,14

Official

63

29:6,14,17,19
29:25 30:6
31:7,13,16
32:3,4,14,17
32:19 33:6,18
33:22,23,25
34:11,15,16,22
34:24 35:4,5,8
36:17,20,25
37:2,5,8,12,14
37:16,17,21
38:1 39:1,1
42:6,14,15
43:10,15,22
44:2,16,23,25
45:5,14,24
46:4,9,14,23
47:7,9,10,11
47:12,13,18,18
48:4,4,5,13,22
50:1,16,18,20
50:23 52:2
53:1,11,13,15
53:19 54:2,5
54:10,15,24
55:3,15,15,16
55:19 57:6
58:2,7,13 59:3
59:5

federalism

29:14 52:21

Federal/Federal

37:18

figure 45:10

find 9:20 22:9

52:3

48:11

finished 32:25
first 3:4 4:13,14

5:17 14:19
20:17 21:9
22:21 33:8,23
34:14 35:24
36:18 37:5,6,8
37:9,16 38:8
38:11,22 44:13
44:18 47:9

48:16 53:4
54:7,10

firsts 38:15
fit 4:2
Fletcher 4:18
flip 28:21
flow 5:15
follow 42:24
45:23 48:1
56:2

followed 29:16
following 56:23
follows 42:24
footnotes 49:8
force 29:13

32:18 34:21,24
47:3

form 25:24

27:13

forth 9:23
forward 18:2,20

22:22

found 31:20
frequency 50:25

51:2

friend 27:2
friends 26:3
front 9:24 58:16

58:18

fruition 3:15
function 41:12
further 15:2
future 31:11,12

54:13

G

G 3:1
general 1:17 7:6

15:14 18:1,3
21:24 29:7
48:8

General's 10:2,3

16:11,14,15
getting 34:17
Ginsburg 5:25
6:16 18:9,11
27:19 28:1,13

28:17,18 36:14
36:24 37:24
38:4,13,16
give 5:6 13:8

21:9 26:18,20
29:24 40:25
44:4,19 45:1,6
45:11 46:13
47:22 52:14

given 32:5 33:14
37:20,23 39:19
42:2 55:13
57:6

gives 57:5
giving 58:15
go 13:1 16:25

27:3 28:2
34:16 40:14
44:2 51:24
54:16 56:14
58:1

goals 10:9,12
27:22 47:24
goes 19:5 20:1

28:9 39:12
48:23

going 7:2,14 8:1

8:15,17 11:3
12:1,5,6,22
21:1,3,4 26:3
29:7,10 32:7
32:21 33:11
34:8,13 35:3
38:5,15 41:21
41:25 42:12,13
42:15 45:6,20
good 13:14 25:5

29:4

Government
18:21 20:3,4
20:13 31:6,18
31:24 32:17
35:12,15 39:22
40:10 41:11
43:9 49:15
51:12 57:9

Government's

face 4:1
faces 12:3
facilities 20:5,9

20:10

facility 14:14

18:1,4,20 19:6
28:8,15 38:21
40:2

fact 12:19 14:4,9

23:21 39:21
40:19 45:6
49:13 52:2
59:6

factor 28:15,17

43:3

factors 8:22 9:6

9:9,10,10
10:16,18 28:4
28:9 39:16,20
39:21 56:2,9
56:13

59:2

fairly 4:17 57:16
falls 54:22
fanciful 16:23
far 48:13
fashion 28:7
federal 1:14

3:13,13 5:2,13
5:23 6:2,12,19
6:22 7:3,8,11
7:11 8:4,5,14
8:17 9:14 10:9
10:20,23 11:8
13:23 14:24,25
15:11,12,21,25
16:2 17:6,8
18:2,5,6,13,21
19:4,22,23
20:3,4,9,13,14
20:16,17,19,20
20:22 21:12,13
21:17,18,19
23:8,10 24:2,3
24:10 25:25
26:4,20 28:16

exclusively 4:25

facts 58:20,22

established 40:3

40:20

estimation 7:9

7:15 14:21

EVAN 1:19 2:10

30:15

event 30:8
eventuality

25:18

eventually 47:6
evidence 49:1
Ex 30:21 40:17
exact 7:22 10:18
exactly 17:3
35:1 39:8
45:10

example 33:14

33:15 45:16,18
54:19

exclusive 22:17

23:3

41:12

28:22

56:19

executive 51:18
exemplary

exercise 56:18

exercised 36:2
exhaust 57:13
existence 31:9
existing 21:14

explanation

22:22

54:21

explicitly 37:20

51:19,23

explosion 48:12
expressly 31:1
extent 9:17

36:15 57:11

extra 10:13

24:20 51:20
extraordinary

39:14

F

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

64

implement

47:23 52:12

implementation

29:9

indictment

36:16

9:25 15:18
39:24

grant 36:4,9,10
granted 3:12 8:2

grants 21:6

39:18

35:25

greater 50:24

51:1

guard 25:18
guess 10:5,21
12:20 13:12
14:17 22:9,10
47:4,24

guideline 24:3
guidelines 9:13

13:7

gun 24:13 34:8
34:11 42:7,8

guy 10:11
H

habitability

half 10:22 12:6

40:3

56:22

hand 46:16

52:22 56:8,11

hands 14:6
happen 8:15

38:5 39:4 47:5
47:21 51:2,20
52:11 55:22
happened 9:15
35:11 38:25
39:5

happening

24:18

happens 6:9

34:1 36:1 46:4
48:5

harmed 43:21
Hawkins 1:14
2:3,14 3:6,7,9
4:3,7,12,22
5:11,22 6:6,21
7:9 8:13 9:4,8

9:17 10:1,14
11:2,13,23
12:8,14,18,24
13:5,10,13,16
13:21 14:7,17
21:16 23:7
57:22,23,25
58:17 59:4,10

health 40:3
hear 3:3 25:1

26:15

heard 47:25
held 49:20
hellhole 40:6
helps 44:10
highlighted 14:9
highlights 25:15
historically

40:20

history 3:16
hold 29:4
honestly 31:25
Honor 4:3,7,12
4:22 5:22 6:6
6:13,22 7:9
8:13,22 9:8
10:1,3,14 11:2
11:13,23 12:8
12:14,19,24
13:5,10,13,16
14:8,18 15:25
18:15 27:24
33:1 43:2 58:5
58:17 59:4

hundred 40:18
hypothetical
11:11 58:2

I
Ice 50:14
idea 7:13 8:15

8:17 44:8 48:9

identically

43:11
III 56:8
immediately

54:11

Alderson Reporting Company

52:14

impliedly 35:16
important 12:3
importantly

8:16

impose 30:22

37:6 39:2 41:5
49:7,17 56:3

imposed 3:15,22
3:22,23 4:5 5:9
5:13 7:3,22 8:1
8:7,12 14:15
17:9,14 22:4
31:11 36:16,20
37:8 41:8
42:10,11,17,19
47:9,19 48:15
49:18 53:23
54:2 55:4 58:6

imposes 46:11
imposing 33:7

49:11 50:4
51:20

imposition

47:13

impossible 8:24
imprisoned 33:8
imprisoning

53:3

imprisonment
3:20 4:5 5:2,9
5:12,13,15,21
5:24 7:14,18
8:1,19 9:4 11:4
13:25 19:7
33:5 40:24
42:19 47:16
59:8

imprisons 37:6
inconsistent

51:11

incorrect 49:16
increasing 48:12
indeterminant

individual 29:15

individualized

52:5

28:10

information

7:12,16 11:7
11:12,14 12:25
14:20,22 30:9
58:10

infringing 45:24
inherent 15:19
22:21,23 50:8
inherently 50:13
inmate 28:6
inmates 20:17
insight 8:10
instance 33:7,22
instances 33:10
intended 31:4
intent 10:8

27:22

interact 39:9
interested 44:6
interesting 9:3

16:24

interfere 53:2
interference

52:16

interpretation
4:10 19:14,18
involved 20:25

31:10

irrational 4:21
irrelevant 39:5
issue 15:1 51:9

52:8 55:21
58:9

J

jail 12:4 42:14
jailer 37:13,17

41:18,20 44:11
51:14

JASON 1:14 2:3

2:14 3:7 57:23

Jay 1:16 2:6
15:5,6,9,24
16:5,9,15,19
17:17 18:11,15
18:18 19:11,20
20:7,9,16 21:8
21:25 22:1,18
23:5,20 25:2,6
25:8,12,15
26:2,8,11,15
26:18 27:5,12
27:19,24 28:2
28:12,16,20
29:5,12 30:4
30:13 36:4
judge 4:18,18

7:8,11,24 8:14
8:17 9:15 11:8
12:2,5 14:15
14:25 17:6
21:19 24:3,7
24:10,19 25:8
25:18,19,22,23
26:4,20 27:4
27:14,20,21
28:19,22,23,24
29:20,23,25
30:5,6 32:3,12
32:18 33:17,19
34:10,12 35:5
35:8 36:18,20
37:5,16,16,19
37:22,25 38:1
38:2,3,4,9,9,17
38:22 39:1,11
41:5,5,17,20
41:24 42:3,5,9
43:15,22 44:12
44:13,13,22
45:10,18 46:2
46:8,11,11,18
47:2,3,17,21
47:22,23 51:14
51:24 52:2,6
52:14,15,17,22
53:1,6 54:11

Official

24:12 25:9
28:19 30:5
33:15 34:4
38:14,18,23
42:10,11,12,12
42:14 45:4,13
45:20 46:2,14
46:24 49:19
51:5 55:19
57:7 58:19
59:3

knowing 9:1
knowledge
47:21 55:2
knows 29:25
46:8 57:7,7

L
lack 56:25
lacks 3:17
language 19:16
later-served
34:15 37:7
45:14

Laughter 19:1

25:4 26:17

law 10:15 17:23

17:24 30:22
48:13,14,17
50:23 54:23,24
55:18

laws 48:19 50:20
lean 19:16
leave 24:2
left 32:24
length 7:22

14:15

letting 52:11
let's 14:2 22:5
23:1 33:21
43:24 46:4

life 43:13
light 32:3
limitations 23:6

line 10:6 30:3

23:22

59:7

23:1,15,20,24
25:3,5,7,11,13
25:22 26:6,10
26:12,16,25
27:6,8,19,23
28:1,12,13,17
28:18,25 29:11
29:12,24 30:1
30:3,4,12,13
30:14,18 31:6
31:20,23 33:2
33:9 34:2,4,6
34:17,19,20
35:1,7,12,23
36:14,24 37:4
37:24 38:4,13
38:16 40:22
41:13,15,19,24
42:4 43:14
44:6,7,15,24
45:3,9,17
46:22 48:7,24
49:1 50:6,16
51:4,5,25 53:5
53:9,17 54:18
56:25 57:21
58:1,12,21
59:9,11
K

Kagan 21:25
22:2,19 23:1
23:15,21 34:19
35:12,23 49:1
51:4

Kagan's 48:24
keep 54:16
keeping 54:5
Kennedy 5:19

9:21 18:22
19:2,13,17,21
45:17 46:22

key 53:13 54:10
know 5:3 7:17

8:9 11:9 14:12
16:4,11 20:4
22:19 23:2,23

54:20 55:2,9,9
55:22 56:1,8
58:3,17,22

judges 14:6 27:5

29:15,18,19
31:17 55:14,15
56:18 57:4
58:15

judge's 7:24
12:11 48:2

judgment 1:20
2:12 7:13 8:20
25:21 27:13,16
27:16 30:11,17
43:4 56:17
58:14

judgments

38:20

judicial 11:15

11:19,21 15:19
22:8 30:23
31:4 40:8,16
50:13 51:16,21
57:15 58:13
judiciary 50:9
jurists 4:18
justice 1:17 3:3
3:9,25 4:4,9,17
5:5,19,25 6:15
6:16 7:1,21 9:3
9:5,16,18,21
10:4,10,12,19
11:9,19 12:1
12:10,15,21
13:2,6,11,15
13:18 14:2,3
14:12 15:4,9
15:17 16:4,6
16:10,13,17,19
16:20,22,23,24
17:18,18,20
18:9,11,13,17
18:22 19:2,12
19:13,15,17,21
19:25 20:8,11
20:16,23 21:8
21:25 22:2,19

65

14:17 16:6
22:10 27:20
32:24 41:14,19
42:14 45:22
49:21 52:1
54:13

meaning 5:7,8
23:22 54:4,6

meaningful
47:24 49:3

means 40:4 42:3

44:1

meant 20:12
mechanism

53:21 57:13

meets 40:2
mentioned

21:17

mercy 40:8
merited 40:20
merits 39:24
met 23:12
mind 22:11

23:17,19 24:1
minimum 27:2

40:3 43:6
54:20

minutes 39:1

57:22

missed 26:12
modified 8:18
modify 39:14
monkey 17:10
MONROE 1:3
months 6:13

29:6

morning 3:4
muck 32:19
multiple 3:20

4:4 5:9,20

M&M's 49:20

49:23

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
name 49:14
natural 5:15

linguistically

23:25

little 18:20

40:22

local 48:14,17
locked 30:10
logical 32:25
long 13:3 15:11

20:24 40:15
43:8 45:10
51:17 55:16
56:14

longer 29:4 46:6

54:16

look 8:22 9:11
9:13 10:8,16
13:1 16:22,25
17:20 18:16
27:3 31:21
45:1

looking 10:4,6
14:24 27:17
59:4

looks 28:4
lot 33:13 38:14
loved 18:25

M

maps 28:4
match 9:10
materials 9:23
matter 1:11 11:4
48:1 52:7 57:5
59:14

matters 34:5
mean 6:17 10:19

11:3 12:20

M 1:16 2:6 15:6
maintained

18:21 20:12

making 8:20,23

11:6 12:2
25:20,23 45:7
mal-administr...

mandatory 27:2

56:25

54:19

Alderson Reporting Company

nature 9:11

51:22

nearly 30:20
necessarily 42:3

50:11

need 40:8
needed 59:3
needs 39:10 43:5

47:23 57:7
neither 31:1

38:3

never 3:15 25:17

31:7 39:18
42:2 55:1 56:1
57:18

Nevertheless

27:21

night 49:22
Ninth 17:24
norm 20:21
note 17:22
November 1:9
number 25:6,8
31:15 58:13

numbers 48:10
Nunc 19:12

O
O 2:1 3:1
obligation 33:7
obstacle 49:23
obtained 8:11
occur 55:23
occurs 47:16
offense 8:1
21:18 53:7

offenses 48:21

50:21

office 27:3
officer 48:17
officers 48:14
Office's 27:13
Oh 16:20 34:4

34:17

okay 20:8 24:15

42:22 46:13

once 35:11

Official

66

42:21 49:22
57:9

ongoing 53:11

53:13

open 56:8
opposite 57:3
oral 1:11 2:2,5,9
3:7 15:6 30:15
order 3:13 4:16
6:7,7,8 13:23
15:1 18:6 26:4
33:5,6 35:11
36:25 43:17
50:6 55:11
57:13 58:9
ordered 6:22
Oregon 50:14
ought 10:25
overcome 33:16
overlapped

overridden

58:24

16:10

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 17:19

17:22,22 39:23

pages 49:8
parallel 5:3
pardon 9:22

46:4

parole 13:6,8

14:5 29:1

part 13:19 14:3
14:7,18 15:21

parte 30:21

40:17

particular 26:22

42:6 52:4
53:20 54:23
particularly
33:11 52:20
passage 13:17

14:8 18:5
20:17

passed 8:14

13:19,19,22
14:3 15:20,25
48:23

passing 3:11
peculiar 23:18
peculiarity

23:20

penal 18:19 40:2
penitentiaries

20:19,22
people 56:7
perfect 7:20
person 10:12,24
11:14 19:23,24
40:7 43:12
48:19 53:6
54:21

perspective

petition 6:10

43:11

39:18

petitioner 1:4,15

1:18 2:4,8,15
3:8 11:17 15:8
39:13 44:3
57:24

Petitioner's

29:13

phrased 18:23
piece 55:12
place 4:24 5:16

18:23 19:7
40:24 57:17

plain 5:7,8
plainly 35:20

40:12

play 14:19
please 3:10

15:10 30:19
plenary 39:2
point 3:17 5:21
11:16 12:19
14:3 21:15,16
24:3 25:15
26:10,13,13
27:9 38:15
41:22 44:7

48:24 53:13,14
54:10 55:25
points 22:20
policy 27:25

28:2

position 39:15
46:12,12,23

possibility 23:14
possible 23:8

36:21,23

possibly 38:23

53:2

power 3:17 5:17
13:25 15:19,21
17:7 21:13
25:25 26:4
31:7,10 36:13
37:20 38:10
40:4,25 41:1,5
44:4 53:19,23
58:16

practical 24:22

24:25 25:2
26:20 32:23
practice 17:3

22:23 51:6,11
56:23

precisely 16:19

35:6 41:22
42:1 47:1

precluded 40:8
predecessor

21:10

43:18

prediction 43:16

preferable

30:10 58:12,15
preference 48:2
preliminary

39:25

premature

30:10

premise 22:6

36:9

prepared 24:24
prescribe 21:13

21:19

prescribed

16:14 23:11
presumably
37:9 49:23

presumptions

presumptively

53:20

32:8

pretty 16:24
prevail 50:7
previous 31:17
previously 8:2

21:14

primary 48:16
principle 54:17
principles 40:13

52:21

prior 13:16
49:10 50:9
prison 11:11

15:12 19:8,22
19:22 20:21,24
42:15 43:6,9
43:10,13 46:4
51:17 56:14
prisoner 11:17

19:3 34:22
38:21,25 40:6
42:6 43:21
54:14 58:5

prisons 6:9,10

7:6,16,20 9:6,9
10:7,16 13:8
13:12 14:11
15:15 20:1,18
26:23 27:3,15
27:17,25 34:22
34:25 35:10
37:10 39:8,12
39:17,19 40:5
40:13,14 41:1
41:25 42:2,24
43:3,19,23
44:4,8 46:17
46:19 47:7,25
48:3 54:5 55:6
55:17,24 56:21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

67

57:9,12

private 20:2
privately 20:6,7
pro 19:12
probably 23:25

50:20

42:22

punishment

21:17,18 30:22
40:16 51:21,21
55:14 56:15

purposes 42:18

probation 8:2,3

56:15

8:16 33:24
57:5

problem 24:7,22
24:23,25 25:2
26:20 32:23
35:14 43:1
51:23 55:5

problems 57:1
procedural

56:12

process 11:16
prognosticating

program 10:6

14:25

10:17

proper 7:12
proposing 29:17
proposition

49:15

prosecution

37:2

prosecutions
36:18 37:1
protections

56:12

protects 9:1
provide 47:3

55:20

provided 30:22

31:19 44:1
55:10

providing 47:20
provision 4:1
13:19 31:2
39:7 53:20

public 1:14 9:1
pulled 46:17
pulls 46:19
punish 26:9,11
punished 42:21

pursuing 44:7
put 14:6 24:20

32:1 36:3

Q

qualifications

24:4

quantum 21:17
question 3:18
7:10 12:16
20:24 21:23
22:15 24:12
26:19 31:25
36:2,3 37:5
41:3 49:2,6
50:12 51:6
53:12 55:25
questionable

questions 15:2

51:18

21:23

quintessentially

40:16 50:13
51:16

quite 16:21,23
32:24 33:16
quoted 40:17

R

R 3:1
radar 23:3 51:8
raised 44:7
ran 58:24
rationally 57:16
read 4:13,19,23
4:23 9:19 17:5
17:5 36:10
39:25

reading 4:21

17:2 21:5

27:24 32:25

real 24:4
realize 41:3
really 18:24
31:25 46:23
47:2 48:25
reason 14:8
21:11 32:2
44:5 48:12
55:11 56:16

reasonable 59:5
reasonableness

56:10

reasoning 7:25

8:10,11

reasons 21:9
25:3 37:3
39:14 44:1
52:11

rebuttal 2:13
15:3 57:23
receive 8:19

55:15

received 6:24
receives 3:19
recognized

17:23 21:12
51:2

recognizing

58:15

recommend
18:9,10,12
26:23 29:19

recommendat...
12:12,17 25:19
25:20 26:21
27:11 28:23
58:19

recommendat...

27:5,10,15
recommends

30:6

reduce 44:23
reduced 58:14
refer 31:22
refers 4:25
reflects 24:4

relinquishes

28:11

reform 3:12
15:14 17:1
31:2,17,19
48:23

regard 8:16 54:9
regarded 50:14
regional 10:7,21

27:3

rejected 22:8
related 52:6
relationships

3:21 23:8

Release 34:25
relevant 7:23

8:10

46:3

remain 39:11
remainder 15:3
remained 4:16
remaining 57:22
remedies 57:14
remotely 31:2
remove 49:22
repeat 33:14
repeatedly

12:13

reply 17:19
report 16:25
17:21 31:22
49:8,9,17

represent 28:5
require 10:12
33:18 34:16
requirement
39:25 54:24
requires 10:15

47:23

requisite 14:20
reserve 15:3
respect 45:14

47:2,22 50:16
50:17 53:22
57:1 59:2

respected 4:17

29:14,16

Respondent

1:18 2:7 15:7
responsive 27:9

48:4

restrict 31:4
restricted 31:8
resulted 56:25
retroactive 19:3
retroactively

19:7

reversal 46:5
reversed 42:25
review 11:15,20
11:21 56:10,12
57:15

reviewable

revocation
33:24 57:6
revoked 8:18
rid 29:1
right 13:9 15:23
16:8 17:4 18:7
19:12 20:2,3,6
24:6 25:5
26:14,16 30:22
35:24 36:21
45:2 52:7,18
53:8,17 54:20

rigor 40:10
risks 52:16
ROBERTS 3:3
9:16,18 10:4
10:19 11:9
15:4 18:13,17
19:25 20:8,11
26:25 27:8
29:11 30:1,12
30:14 44:6,15
44:24 45:3,9
54:18 57:21
59:9,11

rule 5:16 7:7

35:17 37:20,21
45:23 48:17
49:20,24 50:1

run 3:14 4:5

6:23 7:4 8:6,21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

68

13:24 15:22
16:2 20:2,6,7
23:12 24:14
25:24 29:23
32:21 34:11,14
36:19 41:6
45:11 53:10,20
54:2

running 6:11
Runs 35:7
S
S 2:1 3:1
sailing 33:12
salutary 25:20

56:12

satisfied 54:15
saying 5:6 23:17

31:1 46:22
52:9

says 10:7,24
17:23 20:2
26:21 31:6
32:21 35:13
36:11 39:13
42:9 43:9,22
43:25 46:2,18
49:8,16 52:14
Scalia 13:2,6,11

13:15 15:17
16:4,6,10,13
16:17,19,20,23
17:18 19:12,15
28:25 31:6,23
41:15,19,24
43:14

Scalia's 14:3
score 14:13
screen 23:3 51:8
second 18:18
21:16 23:12
30:8 36:1,15
37:1,12,19,24
38:1,2,5,6,7,7
38:8,18 39:25
44:13,17,22
45:9 47:2 48:1

52:16 53:3
54:2

seconds 38:15
section 15:20,25
17:2,21 18:3,5
18:15 21:10,11
27:6 28:5 31:1
39:10,16,20,23
40:23,24,24
44:2 52:12
55:7 56:2,9
security 43:6
see 17:17 24:22

27:4 33:23
45:3,19 51:11
seek 6:17 57:15
seeking 14:9

55:8

sees 32:12
Segal 49:14
Senate 16:25
17:21 31:21

send 58:5
sense 44:16 49:3
sentence 3:14,14

4:1,14,14,23
4:25 5:7,17,18
6:2,11,19,23
6:23,25 7:3,4
7:22 8:7,12,14
8:19,25 9:1
10:23,24 11:25
13:23 14:16,19
15:1,15,24
16:2,3,18 17:7
18:6,8,18
20:20 21:1,3,4
21:14,14,22
24:4,8,17,21
25:17,25 27:2
28:8 29:9,20
31:11 32:3,6
32:14,15,20,21
33:18,25 34:11
34:13,15 35:2
35:3,24 36:15
36:19 37:7,8

38:5,6,8,10,18
38:25 39:1,3,5
39:9,14 40:1,5
40:7 41:6,6,7
42:7,7,8,9,10
42:13,18,19
44:18,19 45:4
45:6,11,11,14
45:19,21 46:14
46:19 47:4,9
47:10,12,17,18
47:19 50:2
52:3,10,16
53:6,11,14,15
54:1,8,11,11
54:13,21 55:3
55:4 56:3 57:8
57:10 58:6,22
sentenced 11:10

19:4 26:22
29:5 31:18
32:7 33:22
46:6,9,21 51:3
55:3

sentences 4:20

15:22 22:5
23:10 32:4
37:5,13 38:22
48:15 49:7,11
49:17,18 50:4
50:17,18 53:22
55:18,24 56:20
57:2

sentencing 3:12

5:2,14,20,23
6:12 7:7,11,24
7:24 9:13 10:9
13:7 14:21,22
15:13,19 27:22
29:18 31:2,4
31:17,19 33:6
37:16 38:9
39:6,20,21,23
41:5,12 43:15
43:17 44:22
47:2,16 48:1
48:23 49:9

50:13 51:7
52:2 53:1,3
55:10,13 56:8
56:11

separate 24:13
24:15 25:24
42:21

sequentially

15:23

serve 6:2 10:13

10:25 11:3
12:7 18:7
26:23 29:10
42:6 43:10
52:5 53:16

served 6:1 15:15

16:18 19:4,9
20:18 21:1,4
21:20 27:1
32:14 33:18,25
34:14 37:9,13
38:6,8,11 39:3
42:7,14 46:10
47:20 48:16
54:8

serves 35:3
service 20:20

21:22 47:13,14

serving 5:1,14

16:3 18:8 19:5
19:9

set 9:22 40:13

58:25

Setser 1:3 3:4

4:1 5:7,23 6:10
11:3 29:5
31:18 33:22
53:15 57:11
Setser's 31:5

33:7 38:9 57:4

setting 29:21
shape 32:3
shorten 29:7
showing 56:24
shows 45:22
side 28:21 52:1

52:1,13,15

56:24

significant 51:9
silent 4:16 49:5
simply 22:13

50:2 58:3

simultaneously

single 32:6,6

22:4

42:20

sits 10:22
sitting 10:20
situated 43:12

56:7

situation 20:1
22:9,11,12,12
22:14 23:4,17
23:18,22 31:10
33:16 35:9
36:5,5,6 43:21
46:12 47:8
48:9 49:3
50:24 55:1
56:1 58:8

situations 4:20
7:1 22:3,6,7
35:13 36:1
55:23 56:6

skip 18:20
smooth 33:12
Snickers 49:22
Solicitor 1:16
10:2,3 48:8

solve 43:1 55:6
somebody 7:2

10:5 29:3
41:15

sorry 6:8 17:22
sort 23:7 49:19
SOTOMAYOR
3:25 4:4,9,17
5:5 11:19 12:1
12:10,15,21
13:18 14:2,12
28:12 29:12
30:3 34:20
35:1,7 58:12
58:21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

69

sound 56:19
sounds 52:19
sovereign 34:16
35:4 37:14,17
44:23,25 48:4
sovereigns 26:8

48:19

sovereignty

44:21 49:12
50:4 54:17,25

space 18:25
speak 36:12

51:10

specific 48:10
specifically

17:24 51:15
specify 16:1
spend 12:4

20:24 43:8,12
46:13 51:17
55:16

spent 6:3
SRA 13:17,18

14:3

standard 27:13
standards 40:3
start 3:18 47:12
starts 39:24
state 6:1,3,18,24

7:3,13,17,22
8:7,7 9:2 10:24
11:21 12:11,16
13:24 15:24
16:2 17:9,13
18:2,8,14 19:5
19:5,8,22 20:9
20:14,18,20
21:14 23:9,9
24:7,13,14,16
24:19,21 25:10
25:23 26:1,5
26:22 28:15,16
29:15,20 30:5
31:12 32:5,9
32:11,18,21
33:8,8,17,19
33:24 34:1,9

34:10,11,12,13
34:21 37:2,7
38:2,3,4,9,21
38:25 39:4
40:6 41:7 42:7
42:8,9 43:16
43:24 45:13,13
45:18 46:2,3,5
46:8,11,11,18
46:24 47:2,3,6
47:11,15,16,21
47:22,22,23
48:1,13,17,20
50:18,23 52:5
52:17 53:2,3,5
53:22 54:1,4
54:12,13,14,15
54:20,23 55:1
55:17,18,22
56:21 57:5,12
58:5,5,6,16,18
58:23,25

stated 30:20

35:17

statement 10:6

27:25 28:3
42:17,18
statements

10:17

States 1:1,6,12
3:5 9:13 30:21
40:17 49:14
56:4

statute 4:24 5:16

16:7 17:4
18:23 19:18
21:11 29:8
30:7 35:14,20
35:22,25 37:19
38:3 39:11,18
40:9,9 49:10
50:9 53:21

statutes 50:21
statute's 3:19
statutory 4:10

39:7 50:3

stay 40:15 56:15

50:3

21:5

5:3

stipulate 22:10
stop 25:22,25

26:7,13 53:11
stopped 49:10

strange 10:20

strictures 55:18
structure 3:16

struggling 36:3
subject 5:24

11:15 40:9,10
56:9,18 59:7

submitted 59:12

59:14

subsection

18:16

subsequent 8:4
subsequently

7:3

successive 36:25
suggested 50:19
suggesting
23:16 26:4
51:12

suggests 17:2
super-cautious

45:18

super-max 43:5
support 1:18,20

2:7,11 15:8
30:17

supporting 51:6
suppose 29:11

45:17,22

supposed 10:8

27:3

Supreme 1:1,12
surrenders

19:24

system 7:19

10:10,12 13:7
19:4 27:23
29:1,16 30:21
37:19 39:4
58:13

systems 37:15
S.1 17:1
T

T 2:1,1
tack 12:5
tailor 44:17
take 9:14 13:19

13:22 14:9
19:2 22:2
23:21 28:13,14
29:2,20 33:21
34:22 38:20
51:5

takes 14:13
29:17 35:4

talk 22:5
talking 11:5
22:7 23:24
27:10 52:13

talks 22:3
tell 24:25 33:2

58:21

term 4:7 5:1,12
5:14,24 7:14
7:17,25 8:16
8:17 9:2 11:4
13:24 17:8,14
23:8,9,9 26:22
37:7 43:10,24
54:15 59:8

terms 3:20 4:4
5:9,11,20 8:21
14:15 18:23
22:4,4 23:12
50:14

Texas 1:15,19
text 3:16,19
textual 40:10
thank 15:4 30:4
30:12,13 57:20
57:21,25 59:9
59:10

thing 34:8 45:25

52:1 53:18
things 9:20

25:20 47:15

56:20

think 4:22,24
5:3 7:6 9:5
10:14,25,25
20:13 21:8
26:2,16 27:8
29:21 32:1
33:1,4 35:19
35:23 36:4,9
36:22 37:4
41:13 48:11
49:5 50:7,10
50:11 51:14,22
52:24 53:2
54:9 58:2 59:4

thinking 17:6
22:13 48:25
thinks 44:19

45:10

third 3:25 4:14

4:23,24 5:8
22:8,11,11,14
23:4,14,17,18
35:17 36:1
thought 7:24
17:3,6 23:25
28:25 29:2
32:25 41:4,8
49:10 50:3
51:10

three 3:21 22:5

23:8 35:13
tie 51:23,25
ties 37:4
time 3:23 5:2,13
5:20,23 6:1,11
6:18 7:11 8:13
12:4 13:14
15:3 18:24,25
19:9,21 20:18
21:20,20 23:10
27:6,10 29:21
35:2,4 39:5
42:13,13 45:15
52:5 55:10,13
57:5

times 4:5 5:10

Alderson Reporting Company

26:3

47:6

28:7

54:4

today 18:3,12

transfer 30:24
transported

treat 22:16 23:3
treatment 21:13

tried 28:25 29:2

troubled 44:7
true 13:2 38:24
40:6 50:11,17
51:1

trying 10:17
17:12 42:20
52:3

tunc 19:12
turns 33:5
Twenty 56:22
two 4:18,20 21:9

22:3,6,7,20
23:10 25:19
35:15,16,25
36:15,17 37:15
47:15 50:14
56:6,7
type 43:6
U

Uh-huh 28:1
ultimate 14:23
unclear 4:6,10
uncommon

22:12

understand
19:18 45:7

understood 32:2
undischarged
5:14,24 7:25
13:24 22:4
59:8

unilateral 55:7
unilaterally

44:4

United 1:1,6,12
3:4 9:13 30:21

40:17 49:14
universe 23:7
unrelated 52:6

unthinkable

53:7

13:15

untold 58:13
upfront 56:20
use 20:5 31:3

39:19

uses 7:20,20

V

v 1:5 3:4 49:14

50:14

versus 14:24

52:22,22

vested 41:12
view 9:14 15:18

30:7 51:5
views 14:24

58:16,18,18
violate 48:18
violation 8:3

voluntarily

50:23

19:24

W

waiting 8:11

58:3

want 4:11 14:14

15:18 17:20
22:9,10 24:13
24:15,18 25:1
26:11,18,18
32:2,13,16
33:13,15,24
34:8,10,13
36:18 42:5
43:22 44:18
45:1,5 46:2,18
49:16 51:19
52:4,4 54:12

wanted 14:5

20:14

wants 25:18

Official

29:23,25 35:15
40:10 42:16
53:6,9,10
54:16

warranted

29:21

Washington 1:8

1:17

wasn't 13:18
14:3 22:13
51:7,8

way 19:10,19,20

23:5 26:8
28:10,22 29:7
29:23 32:17,20
33:17 36:10,25
47:1,22,24
49:2 50:15
51:7 52:18
53:11 54:25
55:6 58:2

Wednesday 1:9
week 27:17
weren't 5:12
We'll 3:3
we're 26:16

34:17

We've 28:23
whatsoever 33:8
WILLIAM 1:16

2:6 15:6

willing 56:1,2
wise 56:18
wishes 29:15

withdraw 35:20

57:11

36:13

51:21

withdrawing

wonder 44:9
words 4:6,9,12
18:22 45:15
work 24:6 26:8

33:10,13

working 52:19
works 19:10,11

54:25

world 24:5
worried 40:23
worse 55:2 56:4

56:4

wouldn't 6:17

54:3,13

write 31:23

32:13 42:16,23
writing 52:10,10
wrong 8:9 24:23

24:25 31:14
38:18

wrote 17:3
X

x 1:2,7

Y

year 6:13 12:6
years 6:3,18

Young 1:19 2:10

10:13,25 11:11
15:13 19:8
20:19 24:6,8
24:11,14,21
27:1,4,11,18
27:20 40:19
41:2 42:21,22
43:9,9,12,13
43:23 45:1,5
46:9,13,18,20
54:21 55:8
56:22

30:14,15,18
31:14 33:1,4
33:21 34:3,5
34:12,19,24
35:6,10,12,19
36:8,22 37:3
38:1,6,14,24
41:9,17,22
42:1 43:2,15
43:20 44:14,21
45:2,8,12 46:1
47:1 48:10
49:5 50:10
51:1,13 52:25

70

53:8,12 54:1
54:23

zero 29:24 31:19

Z

46:2,7
1

1 6:13
10 10:13,25
11:11 12:6
38:25 43:9,12
45:1 46:18
54:21

10-year 6:23

10:23,24

10-7387 1:5 3:4
10:03 1:13 3:2
100 20:19
11:05 59:13
126 17:22 49:8
127 17:22 49:8
129 49:9
15 2:7
15-year 45:4,19
151 11:4 29:6
151-month 11:4
16 17:19
1790 20:18
1980 31:21,21
1984 3:12
2

2 24:20 42:22
46:13 57:22

2a 39:23
2-1/2 6:3,18
20 27:1,4,11,18
27:20 43:9,12
43:23 55:8

2011 1:9
2241 11:16
23 6:13
25 45:5

3

3 2:4 19:8 24:6,8

24:11,13

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

71

30 1:9 2:11
310 49:8
314 17:22 49:8
318 49:8
3553 39:20
3553(a) 8:23,24

9:11 39:16
56:2,9

3582(c) 39:10

44:2 55:7

3584 3:16 15:20

17:22 21:10
22:3,3 31:1
40:11 59:5
3584(a) 5:4
15:25 18:5
3584(b) 8:22
3621 14:8 18:14

21:6 39:23
42:8

3621(b) 9:9,21

9:22 10:16
18:3,15 28:5
40:1,12,25

4
4 42:16,21
4082 21:11

5

5 12:6 46:9,19

46:20

5-year 45:6
57 2:15

6

6 6:13

7

7 46:13
79 16:25 31:21

9

924(c) 54:24

Alderson Reporting Company

