Official 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
UNITED STATES, 
:
                  
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 05-998 
                       
JUAN RESENDIZ-PONCE 
: 
             
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Tuesday, October 10, 2006

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:04 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,

 Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
 the Petitioner. 

ATMORE L. BAGGOT, ESQ., Apache Junction, Ariz.; on

 behalf of the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

C O N T E N T S 

ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

3 

ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
ATMORE L. BAGGOT, ESQ.

 On behalf of the Respondent 

                   

26 

REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF 
MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                   

51 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument 

 (10:04 a.m.)

first this morning in United States versus 
Resendiz-Ponce. 

Mr. Dreeben.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. DREEBEN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 In Neder versus United States, this Court 

held that the omission of an offense element from petit 
jury instructions can be harmless error, even though 
that omission violates the Sixth Amendment right to a 
jury trial.  Our submission is that the same analysis 
applies to the omission of an offense element from a 
grand jury's indictment.  Such an error violates the 
Fifth Amendment, but it is harmless when the petit jury, 
having been properly instructed on all of the elements 
of the offense, returns a verdict of guilty beyond a 
reasonable doubt.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'm not quite sure if this 

works, but at the trial before a petit jury there's an 
opportunity for counsel to object.  There isn't an 
opportunity to object when the grand jury indictment 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

comes down.  Now, I guess you could move to quash.
 MR. DREEBEN:  That's correct, Justice 

Kennedy.  In fact, parties do move to dismiss 
indictments for failure to allege all of the elements of 
the offense.  That happened here.  The motion was 
erroneously denied by the trial judge.  The trial judge, 
under Ninth Circuit law, under the assumption that the 
Ninth Circuit has properly interpreted the law, should 
have concluded that this indictment failed to allege the 
substantial step that was part of the attempt.  And if 
the judge had done that, then the Government would have 
gotten back to the grand jury and obtained a superseding 
indictment.

 Instead what the judge did was deny the 

motion, finding that the indictment itself was 
sufficient, and then instructed the jury on all of the 
elements that the Ninth Circuit requires as part of this 
offense.  And so we have now a petit jury verdict beyond 
a reasonable doubt finding that the attempt did involve 
a substantial step towards the completion of the 
offense.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Isn't the problem that the 

motion to quash is going to be made, if counsel is on 
his toes, is going to be made at the beginning of the 
trial?  And we want to induce the court to look very 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

carefully at it at that point, because if the court is 
wrong, somebody has to go through an entire trial as a 
result of it.  And the way to induce the court to be 
very careful at the beginning is to say, this is not 
harmless error, and you've got to take this very 
seriously and you can't take any chance on the, in 
effect, the evidence saving you in harmless error 
analysis later.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, first of all, Justice 
Souter, motions like this are typically made long in 
advance of trial, as this one was.  Waiting until the 
day of trial is far from the optimum practice.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, I'm sure that's 

right.  But that simply reinforces my point.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I think what it 

reinforces is that the judge has enough time to look at 
it and conscientiously attempt to get the law right 
without the need for the court to apply the heavy hand 
of automatic reversal.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But you concede that the 

error would always be harmless if you have a trial 
before a petit jury, and all of the elements are 
instructed to be found by the jury?

 MR. DREEBEN:  Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that is 

our position. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That doesn't 

necessarily make sense.  You can imagine a situation 
where the probable cause and the eventual evidence that 
supports guilt is adduced after the indictment and the 
prosecutor says, you know, we're going to find that 
evidence once we get into it, we don't have it now, but 
indict anyway without it.

 In other words, what's your response to the 
situation where there's no probable cause on an element 
at the time of the indictment, but that evidence is 
later adduced and is a sufficient basis to convict?

 MR. DREEBEN:  My response, Mr. Chief 

Justice, is the same response that this Court gave in 
United States versus Mechanik, where it was confronted 
with an analogous problem.  And that was in that case, a 
violation of the rule that allowed two witnesses to 
testify at the same time before the grand jury.

 And the Court was specifically confronted 

with the question:  Was this harmless error because the 
petit jury has now found guilt beyond a reasonable 
doubt?  And it answered that question yes.  And en route 
to that answer, it said, we could logically be persuaded 
that what we're supposed to do is compare the evidence 
in front of the grand jury to the error and see whether 
the error was prejudicially consequential for the grand 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

jury's decision.  But we're not going to do that, the 
Court explicitly said in Mechanik, because once there is 
a finding of beyond a reasonable doubt, the question of 
probable cause is shown a fortiori and --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Excuse me, you mean you can 

never decide this question until after the trial is 
completed and you see whether the jury convicts beyond a 
reasonable doubt?

 MR. DREEBEN:  No, Justice Scalia, the 

district court should decide this question in advance of 
trial when it's properly raised and, if the indictment 
is defective, dismiss it.  And this Court has recognized 
that trial judges don't need incentives of an automatic 
reversal rule to get them to comply with the law.

 And I want to amend --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Did the U.S. Attorney in 

this case oppose the motion to quash the indictment?

 MR. DREEBEN:  In this case?
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes.
 MR. DREEBEN:  Yes.  And the Ninth Circuit's 
ruling that this indictment was defective was really --
bolt out-of-the-blue might be too strong.  But it was an 
extension of its prior precedents in a way that wasn't 
directly foreseeable.  The United States Attorney's 
office had every reason to believe, based on language in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

prior Ninth Circuit cases, that alleging an attempt to 
enter was adequate to allege the offense.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Mr. Dreeben, this touches on 

what troubles me about this.  I wonder whether we can 
answer the generic question that you presented, whether 
the omission of an element of a criminal offense from 
the indictment can constitute harmless error, without 
considering the nature of the alleged defect here.

 I don't know how you can answer -- if you 
look at whether the alleged defect here is susceptible 
to harmless error analysis, or whether if we were to 
agree with you, in fact, it is harmless, how you can 
answer those questions without reaching a conclusion 
about whether there was any defect in the indictment in 
the first place.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Justice Alito --
JUSTICE ALITO:  And it doesn't seem to me 

that there's any defect in this indictment.  It charges 
-- it recites the language of the statute, it uses the 
word "attempt" which has a very well-settled meaning in 
the law.  Any lawyer would understand exactly what is 
required for an attempt.  It sets out the factual basis 
of the charge.  So I don't know how you would get to 
the -- how you can answer the second question without 
getting into the first question. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

MR. DREEBEN:  We did not challenge in our 

certiorari petition, which this Court granted, the Ninth 
Circuit's holding that in order for an attempt to be 
accomplished there needs to be a substantial step, and 
in an indictment under section 1326, there needs to be 
an allegation of what that substantial step is.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I have the same problem. 
It's such a difficult requirement to get a hold of.  I 
mean, he drives the car, he walks, he breathes.  I mean, 
all of these things enable him to get into the country. 
I just don't understand the basis for the rule.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, it is common law --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  He wasn't forced to go 
over.  He did it on his own.  It seems to me that's --
MR. DREEBEN:  Well, that's certainly the 

Government's position, Justice Kennedy.  But it is well 
settled in the common law that attempts require a 
substantial step towards the completion.  There are 
variations that different jurisdictions use.  That's the 
Model Penal Code formulation.  The Ninth Circuit I think 
has gone beyond where some other courts have gone, as 
Justice Alito was noting, by saying that the indictment 
needs to spell out the factual basis for that 
substantial step.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  What would that be here? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

That he drove the car to the border?  That he got out of 
the car?  That he presented a document?  What -- if you 
could do it over again, what would the indictment say?
 MR. DREEBEN:  The indictment would have to 

say that he attempted to enter the United States and 
took a substantial step towards the completion of that 
crime, to wit he approached the border and came to the 
guard and presented false identifications to the guard 
and lied about his intended destination.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  If you went back to the --

if you went back to the very demanding nineteenth 
century criminal pleading laws, criminal pleading laws, 
they would say that where you use a legal term that has 
a well-0established meaning such as attempt, you don't 
need to spell out the definition of that, of that 
concept.  It's enough to use the term.  So what the 
Ninth Circuit has done is to resurrect, you know, to go 
back to something that's more demanding than would have 
been required in a nineteenth century indictment and 
frame that as a violation of the Fifth Amendment.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, Justice Alito, I'm not 
going to defend what the Ninth Circuit did here, but I 
will be clear about the following:  There is a generic 
legal issue at stake in this case that we face in the 
Ninth Circuit and in other courts around the country 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

because indictments are not always written perfectly. 
And whether it's an element that the Ninth Circuit has 
improperly read into it or an element that a court has 
properly read into a statute, we do face the situation 
where --

JUSTICE BREYER:  As to the element, I 

thought that what the Ninth Circuit talked about was 
overt act.  They didn't use the words "overt act."
 MR. DREEBEN:  They did, Justice Breyer.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes, all right.  I thought 
that comes out of conspiracy law; it doesn't even out of 
attempt law.  Then I thought it's unlikely -- but here 
you can correct me.  The U.S. Code is filled with the 
word "attempt."  Just opening it at random, there are 
attempts to assault and steal mail matter, there are 
attempts to steal the mail matter, there are attempts to 
rob a bank, attempts here, attempts there.

 Is it the Government's practice whenever 
they charge a violation of any of these provisions to 
not just use the word "attempt," but to use the words 
"substantial step"?

 MR. DREEBEN:  No.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  I would have thought the 
answer was no.  And therefore, this isn't just a small 
error of a technical sort.  The Ninth Circuit is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

completely wrong and not even close.  And therefore, if 
they're not even close, can the Government come up here 
where there's an obvious error and they decide, the 
Government, that it would like to have a declaration by 
this Court on a matter that they think is quite 
interesting and important to them in a lot of other 
cases where they can't win the cases easily?

 That's, I'm putting it a little pejoratively 

because I'm trying to get you to see what I'm driving 
at.  It's like a hoked-up case.  Why not?  I'm using it 
pejoratively only so that you can see what I'm worried 
about.

 MR. DREEBEN:  We didn't really have a lot of 

choice about it.  I mean, the Ninth Circuit decided to 
read the statute this way and it reversed the 
conviction.  There's not a circuit split under section 
1326.  We have to bring thousands of indictments in the 
Ninth Circuit, so we're not exactly going to set up test 
cases to risk our convictions based on the Ninth 
Circuit's rule.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But you're making the 

concession only for purposes of this case.  That is, in 
another case you would be free to say the word "attempt" 
is good enough; you don't have to spell out in the 
indictment a particular overt act. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

MR. DREEBEN:  Justice Ginsburg, it's not 

unusual for this Court to decide a case where the 
Government does not challenge the underlying 
constitutional ruling and make some remedial argument. 
Two very notable examples are United States versus Leon, 
where the Government did not challenge the underlying 
Fourth Amendment claim that was found to be valid by the 
lower court, but instead simply asked for a modification 
of the exclusionary rule; and another example is Rose 
versus Clark, which involves a fairly analogous issue to 
this one, whether it can be harmless error to fail to 
incorporate into the jury instructions the actual 
element and instead rely on a mandatory rebuttable 
presumption.  In that case the State did not challenge 
whether the instruction violated the Constitution.  This 
Court didn't decide it.  Instead, what it decided was 
the remedial question of harmless error, which is an 
important question and I submit doesn't change in 
character depending on the nature of the underlying 
error.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  We've done it before, 
there's no doubt about it.  But the better practice 
usually is to have a case in which the issue really 
presents the hard question.  And you're asking us to 
make a ruling in this case that would govern failure to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

allege an aggravating circumstance in a death case, for 
example, which has a different atmosphere to the whole 
case when you're facing that kind of an issue.

 MR. DREEBEN:  It may have a different 

atmosphere, but I don't think that it has any different 
legal analysis behind it.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  A judge's reaction to a 

case is often affected by just exactly what's involved. 
And here it's just hard to see how anyone could claim 
any particular prejudice out of the error in this 
particular case or, really, it's arguable that there's 
no defect in the indictment at all because it was 
adequate notice to the defendant of what he's charged 
with.  This is much like a case in the State systems 
where you have notice pleading.  It doesn't seem very 
prejudicial.

 But you put it in a different context, you 

might have a different reaction to the case.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I think our fundamental 

submission here is that with respect to the probable 
cause determination, there is no prejudice because of 
the petit jury's verdict.  With respect to notice, we 
would acknowledge that a defendant could argue that the 
defect in a grand jury indictment in a particular case 
could fail to give him adequate notice such that he 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

might have a case-specific claim of prejudice and be 
able to overturn the conviction.  On the facts of this 
case, I agree with you, Justice Stevens, that would not 
be a very strong argument.  There really is no reason to 
think that there was any notice problem with this very 
discrete transaction which was alleged in the indictment 
as occurring on a particular date in a particular place.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Does this come up very 

often?  I think the case -- the issue you want to raise, 
because I would think normally there's a motion before 
the trial, well before the jury is empanelled.  The 
defendant says:  I want you to dismiss this; the 
indictment's inadequate.  And if that's even close, I 
would think normally the prosecutor would go back and 
say:  Fine, I'll get a superseding indictment, and that 
would end the problem.  And it seems to me so likely to 
happen that the chances of the judge wrongly ruling 
against the defendant and then it goes through a whole 
trial almost never happens.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Justice Breyer, I think that 
an empirical perspective might be helpful here.  And I 
think an empirical perspective, if you look around the 
circuits and you see the number of issues, cases, in 
which this issue is raised, it becomes clear that there 
are a large number of situations in which mistakes get 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

made.

Official 

 I mean, we're talking about a Federal system 

here in which 70 to 80,000 cases are indicted a year. 
Mistakes will happen, and they will happen both by the 
trial judge and by the prosecutor.

 And there will be situations in which the 

circuits change the law or the interpretation of the law 
after the decision in question.  I think that this is a 
good example of that, where the Ninth Circuit extended 
its prior precedents to find that an indictment that 
didn't allege the overt act was inadequate.

 And then the Government is stuck, and the 
rule of automatic reversal, which the Court may appear 
to think in this case is particularly disproportionate 
since the indictment looks fine, functions identically 
even if there's a conceded violation that every member 
of the Court would say yes, there's a missing element 
here.

 The fundamental problem is that the grand 

jury sits to decide probable cause.  It does not decide 
whether the defendant is actually guilty.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, it sits to 

decide whether people should be indicted, and yes, 
they're supposed to determine whether there's probable 
cause, but historically a significant role for the grand 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

jury has been not to indict people even though the 
Government had the evidence to indict them.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I actually do not agree 
that there's any stronger evidence, Mr. Chief Justice, 
that grand juries didn't indict when the Government had 
adequate evidence than there is historical evidence that 
petit juries did not convict when there's proof beyond a 
reasonable doubt.  In both instances, you can point to 
historical instances in which grand juries and petit 
juries played a role of in effect nullifying when there 
was adequate evidence.

 But it's clear from the Neder decision that 

that history has not led to the conclusion that this 
Court cannot evaluate petit jury defects for 
harmlessness, and the same conclusion ought to be true a 
fortiori for the grand jury.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  The trouble with your a 

fortiori argument it seems to me is this:  If we accept 
your argument, then whenever a judge is asked to rule on 
a motion to quash, if the judge is in any doubt, the 
judge is going to be induced by your rule to deny the 
motion to quash and wait and see what happens at trial. 
And if in fact they get to trial and they don't prove 
the element, then it can either be thrown out because an 
element has not been proven or he can go back and revive 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

the motion to quash.

Official 

 If on the other hand the Government gets its 

act together at that point and does put in evidence on 
the element, it's going to be harmless error.  And so 
the price of, it seems to me, of your rule is that 
someone will always be put to trial if there is any 
question about how the judge should rule on the motion 
to quash, whereas if we go the other way the judge will 
grant the motion to quash and the Government can go back 
to the grand jury and get another indictment.

 It seems to me that something is seriously 

lost in that situation if we go your way.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, Justice Souter, 

experience doesn't show that, in fact, district courts 
don't grant these motions.  They grant them, as Justice 
Breyer indicated, when the indictment is not sufficient.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  I'm sure they do grant 
them.  But I'm concerned about the, we'll say, the 
doubtful case or the judge who can't make up his mind. 
Under your rule the price of that uncertainty is always 
going to be to subject somebody to trial.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I do think we can assume 

that Article III judges are a hearty enough species so 
that they can make up their minds and they can rule. 
But to the extent that there is a risk here that judges 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

might reserve the motion, that is the same risk that the 
Court fessed up to and acknowledged in the Mechanik 
case, where in fact the judge did reserve the motion.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  And it seems to me that the 
prejudice to the defendant in the two -- as between the 
two situations simply is not comparable.

 In Mechanik you had a situation in which two 
witnesses putting in whatever evidence they were putting 
in were in the jury room and, yes, one could influence 
the other, et cetera.  Here, we're talking about a 
situation in which it may very well be that the 
defendant should never be put to trial at all.  And your 
rule says if there's any question about it, put him to 
trial, judge.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, given that this issue 

arises only when you have a petit jury verdict of guilty 
beyond a reasonable doubt, it seems overwhelmingly 
likely that any grand jury would have found probable 
cause.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Do we know -- do we have 
the grand jury transcripts, so do we know that, in fact, 
evidence was put before the grand jury that false 
identifications were presented at the border?

 MR. DREEBEN:  The grand jury transcript is 

not in this record, Justice Ginsburg, and we do not 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

suggest that the Court adopt a rule in which it reviews 
the adequacy of the evidentiary showing before the grand 
jury.  There are important values in grand jury secrecy. 
They will, of course, be compromised at the trial stage 
if witnesses testify and the testimony is turned over in 
that context.

 But more important than the practical aspect 

is exactly the logic that the Court used in Mechanik. 
The point of the grand jury indictment is to determine 
is there enough to take this person to trial.  Once the 
person has been taken to trial and been found guilty 
beyond a reasonable doubt, we know that if the 
Government went back to the grand jury it would be able 
to get an indictment.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  How far would you go with 

the Mechanik logic?  Suppose that someone is charged by 
information with a felony without the person's consent 
and for some reason the trial judge refuses to dismiss 
the information and then the person is convicted.  Would 
you say that because the petit jury returned a verdict 
that the fact that the person was charged with a felony 
by information calls for no remedy?

 MR. DREEBEN:  No, I would not go that far, 

Justice Alito.  I would draw the same line that this 
Court drew in the Midland Asphalt case where it was 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

looking at a somewhat analogous problem of an 
interlocutory appeal and the same line that it drew in 
Neder itself.  In Neder the Court said if the judge 
directs a verdict of guilty, that's an impermissible act 
and it cannot be rendered harmless no matter how 
overwhelming the evidence is.

 In the Midland Asphalt case, this Court 

dealt with whether the language of the Fifth Amendment 
created a right not to be tried.  And it does say "No 
person shall be held to answer absent an indictment 
issued by a grand jury," and the Court said if you have 
a defect that causes an indictment not to be an 
indictment or, as in your hypothetical, Justice Alito, 
no indictment at all, or if you have a defect that 
causes the grand jury not to be a grand jury, those are 
the kind of fundamental errors that would give rise to a 
right not to be tried such that you could take an appeal 
before trial, an interlocutory appeal.

 And I would submit that the same kind of 

principle would apply here.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  So it's just a 

metaphysical inquiry, when is an indictment not an 
indictment?  It's not some other standard of what's 
fundamentally unfair or, from the Sixth amendment, 
whether or not there's notice? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

MR. DREEBEN:  I'm borrowing the language 
from the Midland Asphalt opinion, but I think that it 
was a poetic way of putting the point that if you don't 
have --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You say poetic, I said 

metaphysical.  When is an indictment not an indictment?

 MR. DREEBEN:  When you don't have one.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Now why would there be any 
difference then?  That's a question I was about to put 
to you.  What if there is no indictment at all?  Why 
couldn't you say the same thing?  Well, you know, the 
only purpose of getting it is to see if there was 
probable cause and you now have a conviction beyond a 
reasonable doubt.

 MR. DREEBEN:  You could push the logic of 

that argument that far.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I don't think it's pushing 

it, I think it's there.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Just as in the Neder case, you 

could say that it would be harmless error if a judge 
directed a jury verdict when the evidence was 
overwhelming on all of the elements.  But the Court did 
draw a distinction between those two situations.  And I 
think that it's one that responds to a kind of common-
sense view of how fundamental an intrusion is there. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

JUSTICE BREYER:  Doesn't an indictment have 
as its purpose in part to tell the defendant what crime 
he's being accused of committing?  Isn't that -- so 
that's why I thought it would be quite clear, wouldn't 
it, or helpful to say that to the Ninth Circuit?  And so 
an error is when it doesn't do that?  And an error is 
when it leaves out an element, and he doesn't know what 
crime is being committed, he's accused of.  So suppose 
you had an indictment that really did that.  Now he 
doesn't know what crime he's accused of.  And then you 
go to the trial and so forth and now we have to go into 
at what point did he work out what crime he was being 
accused of, rather hard to say.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, chances are he did know 

what crime he was accused of.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, yes, of course the 

chances are.  But there's a possibility he didn't.

 MR. DREEBEN:  And we submit --
JUSTICE BREYER:  So if he didn't and 

therefore the indictment was faulty in that respect, 
then what?  Are you going to say we have to track 
down -- I mean what it's reminding me of is like trying 
to say whether he got an adequate lawyer, didn't get an 
adequate lawyer, who knows, that kind of problem.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, it isn't quite like 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

that, I hope, Justice Breyer.  I mean, notice defects 
are very commonly alleged by defendants and courts know 
how to look for prejudice.  They know how to say whether 
the defendant was denied an opportunity to prepare his 
defense or misled by the indictment in some fashion or 
another.  And that's a very common case by case sort of 
prejudice inquiry that fits with the nature of the 
violation.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  -- me until halfway through 

the trial that it was robbery I was being accused of 
because they left robbery out of the indictment.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, what you get are cases 

where there needs to be an effect on interstate commerce 
and it's not alleged and then the Government comes up 
with proof.  I'm not saying that there is going to be a 
vast pool of cases in which defendants would validly be 
able to show prejudice from lack of notice; and that's 
because we do have many other means in the criminal 
justice system to alert the defendant to what he's 
facing.

 There's discovery, there's the opportunities 

for a bill of particulars to be filed.  Those are the 
kinds of conventional harmless error inquiries that are 
appropriate when you have a claim that the indictment 
fails to give adequate notice.  But what is not 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

appropriate is for the Ninth Circuit to impose a rule on 
the Government and on the system of justice that says we 
will automatically reverse, because there are important 
values at stake here whenever a rule of automatic 
reversal is contemplated.  And this was true in the 
Mickens versus Taylor case where the Court rejected a 
rule of automatic reversal when a judge didn't ask a 
question in response to an obvious conflict --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'm still not sure of your 

test.  It's whether or not it's fundamentally unfair, 
whether or not there's notice, which sounds like more 
Sixth Amendment than Fifth.  Or whether it's not an 
indictment, a rose is a rose type of thing.

 MR. DREEBEN:  There are two aspects to our 
rule, Justice Kennedy.  The first is that to the extent 
that the claim of a defective indictment goes to the 
question of was there probable cause, that error and 
that constitutional value is not a basis for reversal 
once a petit jury has found guilt beyond a reasonable 
doubt on the same point.

 To the extent that the defect in the 

indictment goes to inadequate notice, a defendant can 
make such a claim post trial that the indictment 
prejudiced him because it was inadequately framed.  But 
that should be done on a case-specific basis rather than 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

on a rule of automatic reversal.

Official 

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Dreeben, if we disagree 

with you here, could this defendant be retried?  Could 
he be reindicted?

 MR. DREEBEN:  Yes, Justice Scalia.  I don't 

believe there would be any double jeopardy bar to 
reindicting him since he is the one who's challenged his 
conviction.

 I'd like to reserve the remainder of my 

time.

Dreeben.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

 MR. DREEBEN:  Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Baggot.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MR. ATMORE L. BAGGOT

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. BAGGOT:  Mr. Chief Justice, if it please 

the Court:

 The structure created by the Constitution of 

this country provides a single means of charging a 
person with a Federal criminal offense.  The intention 
of the framers of the Constitution was that a group of 
ordinary citizens would take time away from their 
families, their businesses, and their other concerns for 
the purpose of deciding whether the requirements of the 

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

Fifth Amendment have been met by a Government 
prosecutor, and in, in a few words, whether a trial 
should proceed.  Or not.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You could say the same 

thing about a petit jury.  And in Neder we use the 
harmless error standard.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Absolutely, but the proceedings 

before a grand jury are secret.  We never know what 
happened inside a grand jury.  It's a closed door 
proceeding.  It is an independent body.  It is not 
subject to any appeals or reviews by the trial judge. 
The only thing that we know what happened behind those 
closed doors was the document that emerges, which is the 
indictment which becomes public knowledge.  Nothing else 
is known about what happened in that jury room.

 Now, I'll take a guess as to what happened. 

The Government told the grand jury that the overt act 
requirement was not necessary, or perhaps, I'll take 
another guess, they stated to the grand jury what they 
stated to the district judge, that the indictment does 
in fact state the overt act when plainly it doesn't.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Suppose -- suppose we found 
out.  Somebody told what happened, and it was a crime of 
bank robbery or it's an assault of a mailman, a postman. 
And you know, it turns out they didn't present one word 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

of evidence, not a word that says that this individual 
who was assaulted had anything to do with the mail. 
There's complete absence of any evidence whatsoever on a 
major element of the offense.  And now, suppose we get 
finished with the trial.  Plenty of evidence. 
Conviction.  Can you go back and raise that?

 MR. BAGGOT:  I believe it would be raised --
JUSTICE BREYER:  No.  No.  I mean can you 

win.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Oh, can you win.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Yeah.
 MR. BAGGOT:  You can always raise it.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  I mean, you see, I'm saying 

is that error?  Is that correctible error?  I'm saying 
there is an absolute error.  It is far worse than here. 
We know for a certainty there was no evidence whatsoever 
presented to the grand jury on a major element of the 
crime.

 MR. BAGGOT:  You're assuming somehow the 

transcript has been disclosed.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes, I assume we know that. 

Take that as a given.  We know.

 MR. BAGGOT:  The doors are open, they're not 

closed.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Yeah, we know. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

MR. BAGGOT:  We know what happened and 

basically there's zero evidence.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.  Zero.
 MR. BAGGOT:  Your Honor, the history of this 

Court's treatment of grand jury is that they may 
consider any evidence; they may consider --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes, but what is the answer 

to my question, yes or no?  I'm saying after the --

MR. BAGGOT:  I believe in that situation the 

petit jury's verdict would stand.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's right.  So the 

answer is no?

 MR. BAGGOT:  The answer is no.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  And if you can't raise 

that, which is a major area because there's a harmless 
error is what it really amounts to, why isn't the same 
true here where the error is far more likely to be 
simply technical and make no difference given the 
adequacy of the evidence?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Because the Constitution 

contemplates that the grand jury be independent, that 
its decision --

JUSTICE BREYER:  It does as well in my case.
 MR. BAGGOT:  -- not be reviewed, that 

there's no appeal, there's no review process for what 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

the grand jury did behind its closed doors, whether we 
open the doors or not.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  What if it's perfectly --
MR. BAGGOT:  Sir?
 JUSTICE ALITO:  I'm sorry.  What if it's 
perfectly clear that the error is simply a clerical 
error?  Let's take a case where somebody is charged with 
possession of a firearm by a convicted felon.  And 
before the grand jury, we look at the transcript, we see 
that the prosecutor introduced evidence of five 
judgments of convictions for felony offenses.  And the 
jury is properly charged that they have to find that 
this individual was a convicted felon.  And there's 
simply -- and then when the case is tried at, when the 
case is tried the defense even stipulates that the 
person is a convicted felon.

 But there's a clerical mistake in preparing 
the indictment.  And it doesn't recite the fact that the 
defendant was previously convicted of a felony.  It's 
your position that there must be a reversal there?
 MR. BAGGOT:  Your Honor, if there is a 
clerical error, Rule 36 gives the trial judge the 
ability, and the power, and the authority to correct an 
error which is purely clerical.  I refer you to the case 
of Contreras-Rojas, which was this exact defense. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official 

JUSTICE ALITO:  But what if it comes up on 

appeal?  Nothing is done until it comes up on appeal.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, I believe --
JUSTICE ALITO:  Which is exactly in the 

posture of this case.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, Rule 36 says the court 

may correct clerical errors at any situation.  But that, 
your question presupposes that we know what happened in 
the grand jury room, that it should have been an 
indictment, they intended it to be in the indictment --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How do you distinguish 

the mail -- the letter carrier case that Justice Breyer 
posed, because there you said even though there was no 
evidence at all of what this person was, if the petit 
jury found it, that would not be subject to review.  I 
don't think you answered Justice Breyer and he said if 
you concede that, the failure to introduce any evidence 
that this person was a letter carrier.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I would like to even 

sharpen Justice Breyer's hypothetical.  Let's assume 
that the indictment did set forth what the overt act 
was.  It did.  But there was no evidence of that overt 
act introduced before the grand jury.  What would the 
result of that be?

 MR. BAGGOT:  The result --

31

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Then the trial occurs --
MR. BAGGOT:  And he's found guilty.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  He's convicted.  And I 

think you're going -- your position is that conviction 
would stand.

 MR. BAGGOT:  My position is the conviction 

would stand, yes, sir.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That doesn't seem to me to 

make a lot of sense.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, the grand jury is 

independent.  There is no review from the grand jury. 
The petit jury is an independent institutional body. 
The function of the grand jury is not only to find 
probable cause, rightly or wrongly, but the function of 
the grand jury is also to select the charge.  And 
specifically since your decision in Recuenco versus 
Washington that sentencing enhancements are to be 
treated the same way as basic elements of the offense to 
be charged also, the grand jury's role is going to be 
even better.

 My position is simply that there is no 
review whatsoever from the grand jury.  If you're 
unhappy, you're a defendant, you're unhappy with what 
the grand jury did, you say there's no evidence, you go 
to trial, you get acquitted.  That's the only review 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

there is of the grand jury and what they did.  If 
there's an error the case must go back to the same grand 
jury or conceivably another grand jury.  There's no 
jeopardy at that stage.  There's no constitutional 
complications.  And the Government is free to go back. 
Quite frankly, I'm very surprised the Government did not 
just go back and amend the indictment -- not amend it, 
but supersede the indictment and allege an overt act.

 The basic problem we have here is that there 

are so many acts committed by everybody which could be 
in furtherance of a crime.  And the problem is going to 
trial that we don't know which act the Government was 
talking about.  They told us in motion proceedings that 
the entry itself was the overt act.  But the court of 
appeals ruled that that cannot be an overt act.  So 
possibly Mr. Resendiz was entitled to judgment as a 
matter of law.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Can't you ask for a bill of 

particulars?

 MR. BAGGOT:  I could have done that, yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, then you would have 

had no problem.

 MR. BAGGOT:  But bill of particulars are not 
favored motions.  And what is to -- that would still be 
the Government speaking on behalf of the grand jury. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Were you, were you 

surprised at trial by the evidence that the defendant 
had submitted two false identifications?  Was the first 
time you heard about that at trial?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Your Honor, Justice Ginsburg, I 
would submit that the prejudice to the defendant at the 
jury trial, the petit jury, was a slight prejudice.  The 
real problem I feel was on appeal, that if the 
Government had alleged --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But were you, was there 

any element of surprise in this trial?  Did you not know 
beforehand that the Government was going to present 
evidence of two false identifications?

 MR. BAGGOT:  No, I knew that, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So there was no lack of 

notice; there was no surprise.

 MR. BAGGOT:  In our court we have complete 

discovery.  They copy the file for it and hand it to us. 
So we know everything they know.  But what we did not 
know is what the Government would rely on as their overt 
act.  They said it was the entry itself.  The court of 
appeals ruled as a matter of law, rightly or wrongly, 
that that cannot be an overt act, because it simply --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, surely submitting 

false identification could be a overt act. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

MR. BAGGOT:  It could be.  But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is there any doubt about 

that?

 MR. BAGGOT:  It could be an overt act.  It 
could be, lying could be a overt act, tying your shoes 
in the morning with intent to go to --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes, but you knew that --
you had the file.  You knew the Government was going to 
prove this.  And you also knew it was an overt act.

 MR. BAGGOT:  It could have been.  But there 

are many acts.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But your point is not that 
there was any prejudice here.  Your point is that he was 
entitled to a grand jury?

 MR. BAGGOT:  He was entitled to a grand jury 
as an independent institutional body.  And the problem I 
have with the Government's point of view is that it 
places a judge as a reviewing authority over what a 
grand jury has done, regardless of the standard that's 
applied.  And of course in -- it's a rare case when you 
even know what a grand jury did.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You don't have 

any -- you're not suggesting to us that the grand jury 
that indicted him for intentionally attempting to enter 
the United States at or near San Luis would not have 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

indicted him if the indictment had gone further and 
said, and he submitted false IDs?

 MR. BAGGOT:  There are, there certainly are 
scenarios under which they would have indicted him, yes, 
sir.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  You think that the -- that 
the indictment had to specify which of the many things 
that he did, or the several things that he did when he 
approached the border constituted the overt act that the 
Ninth Circuit -- he walked up to the border and he did a 
number of things to try to get into the United States.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Sure.
 JUSTICE ALITO:  And you think that the 
indictment has to specify that walking up wasn't a 
substantial step, but presenting the documents might 
have been, whether it was walking up, presenting the 
documents, lying to the agent?  You have to go into that 
level of detail in order to satisfy the Fifth Amendment?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Rule 7(c)(1) of the Rules of 

Procedure states that the indictment must state the 
essential facts.  It need not be a memorandum of law 
just spelling out the elements of the crime in a general 
sense, but it must state the essential facts.  In the 
Court's case of Hamling it says very clearly, the 
language of the statute must be accompanied by such 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

statement of facts and circumstances as will inform the 
accused of the specific offense coming under the general 
description which is charged.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's a separate 

requirement.  I don't know if it's constitutional or not 
constitutional, but I didn't think that requirement was 
at issue here.

 The requirement of stating the facts is not 
the requirement of setting out the elements of the law. 
At least that's my understanding.  Now, you can correct 
me if I'm wrong.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, Your Honor, based upon 
your Hamling decision, I believe that's what the Court 
said, that there must be an allegation of facts under 
the decision in United States versus --

JUSTICE BREYER:  No, I'm not denying that. 
I just didn't think that had anything to do with this 
case.  I mean, I thought that the object of the 
indictment initially was to set forth what crime the 
person was accused of and inform him of that.

 You are saying, and then there is another 

requirement, which seems a little vague.  It's been hard 
for me to find out, to pin this down, and it's the one 
you state, which is that it says in addition in the rule 
you have to have facts. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

I don't know if those are the same.  I 

thought they were two separate things.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, Your Honor, one of the 
functions of the grand jury indictment is to provide 
notice to the accused of the exact offense with which he 
is charged.  Here, clearly we knew he was charged with 
1326, with attempting.  What we did not know is which of 
the many, many acts that the Government suggested at 
various times, which of the many acts they proved at 
trial, would be the overt act.  As I say, the appeal was 
unfair.  It's not so much the trial was unfair.  It was 
the appeal that was unfair.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Does the Government have 

to pick one overt act and say that's it, when it 
introduces evidence of a whole string of them?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, I don't see how we can 

really address it unless they tell us what they're 
talking about.  And I would point out as of today the 
Government has still not identified a single act that is 
their overt act.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, can't you allege 
that the means by which it was done are unknown, but 
that it was by one or more of the following?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Yes, you could.  Many times in 

conspiracy indictments they will allege any of the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company 

following overt acts.

Official 

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's exactly what I -- I 

tried to read some treatises on this, and the more I 
read, the more confused I got.

 I started out thinking, well, it's 

sufficient if you have bank robbery you say on October 
14, 2004, in the city of such and such, at the corner of 
such and such, where there is a bank, the defendant 
walked into the bank and he, he attempted or he did by 
force or threat of force, take property belonging to 
someone else, or whatever it is, and that that would be 
sufficient.  And that you don't have to say, and in 
addition he, you know, what the force consisted of, did 
it consist of a knife, or a gun, or a fist.  Can you 
give me some enlightenment, at least if you think that's 
relevant here?

 MR. BAGGOT:  I don't think that's relevant 

because that's going into excessive detail.  The 
requirement is that the essential fact --

JUSTICE BREYER:  If it's excessive detail, 

the central fact, then why isn't on such and such a date 
at such and such a time he attempted to?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Because he did many things in 

furtherance of the attempt according to the Government's 
proof, and we had a right to know, to have notice of the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

accusation, what is the Government talking about?

 JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  Then why, if 

that's so, why wouldn't that apply as well if they said 
he attempted to and committed an overt act in -- that is 
a substantial step.  And then you're saying in addition, 
they have to list the particular facts.

 MR. BAGGOT:  The essential facts.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  I couldn't find any case in 
this Court that said that.  I mean, I found in Hamling a 
case that went the other way, a general statement.  They 
said all you have to do is say obscenity, you don't have 
to say how obscene or in what way it's obscene, et 
cetera.

 MR. BAGGOT:  But in the Russell case they 

said that you have to provide the essential facts, what 
was the nature of the committee hearing, what was the 
subject --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  And 

then Russell seems lost from sight for quite a while, or 
isn't followed a lot.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But you come back and you 

tell Justice Breyer, well, that's because we had no 
notice.  But that's a different argument than the fact 
that there was no indictment.  Notice can be cured by a 
bill of particulars, by the fact that you've had a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

chance to contest the evidence at trial, that there was 
no error.  That's a quite different rationale than 
saying that this is not an indictment.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, it's not an indictment 

because it did not allege the essential facts.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But that, it seems to me, 

is your argument, not lack of notice.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, it didn't provide a 
notice of what the essential facts was.  Those are 
overlapping concepts, certainly, but we did not know 
what the facts --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask this question. 

Should the test for the missing element be different for 
the test for the wrong element?  In other words, suppose 
the indictment alleged he walked up to the border and 
the evidence showed he rode a bicycle.  There's a 
variance.  Would that present a different legal issue 
than if they just leave the overt act entirely out?

 MR. BAGGOT:  That presents a different legal 

issue because a variance means they alleged A, they 
proved B.  Here they did not allege A.  Nothing was 
alleged.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Why should the test for 

judging the two be different?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Between a variance --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Between a variance and an 

omission?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, when you have a variance 
the question is how much is the variance, how far off is 
the variance.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, it's clearly 
different.  He rode a bicycle instead of walking.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, he's given notice that 
he's approaching the border with intent to commit this 
crime.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  So here you've got notice 

he made an attempt, but you didn't tell us whether he 
rode the bicycle or he walked.

 MR. BAGGOT:  But then the question becomes 
is it material, is the variance material, is it far off 
from what alleged?  Here nothing was alleged.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  See, the problem I'm 

trying to think through is why should there be a 
different rule between those two situations.  It seems 
to me they're equally likely to produce prejudice or 
lack of notice and a failure to comply with the letter 
of the Constitution.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, the prime variance case 
is Stirone versus United States in the 1960s, where the 
Court very simply said that where nothing is alleged 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

this cannot be treated as a simple variance.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But why isn't your answer 

to Justice Stevens that in the case in which there is no 
allegation of an element at all there isn't a sufficient 
indictment to charge him for anything, whereas in the 
case of the variance on your theory, as I understand it, 
there is an indictment and the question is simply 
whether he was misled by the variance and prejudiced?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Right.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  So why isn't the answer is 
in one case there's an indictment, and in the other case 
there isn't?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, the extent is -- it's a 

question that can't be answered in the abstract.  It's a 
question of how material the variance was.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, but why isn't your 
answer to him that in the case in which there is a 
variance you have an indictment; in the case that you're 
talking about there is none?  And the reason I press you 
on that is that I thought the essence of your case was 
that there is no indictment here, i.e., the grand jury 
function has not been performed and he is entitled to 
the grand jury function before he goes to trial.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Correct.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  And if that is the nub of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

your position, then I would have thought your answer to 
Justice Stevens was what I suggested.  If that's not 
your answer to Justice Stevens, then I'm not sure that I 
understand your case.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, Your Honor, our case is 

simply that where a material element is omitted the 
grand jury -- something went wrong in the grand jury 
proceeding, and the only remedy for that is to return 
it, the case, to the grand jury and let them have a 
second go --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  What is the result of what 

went wrong?  How do you characterize the grand jury 
product in the case in which, as you put it, something 
goes wrong?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Constitutionally deficient and 
did not fulfill the requirements of the Fifth Amendment.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  An insufficient -- in other 

words, there is no indictment charging a crime?  Is 
that --

MR. BAGGOT:  That's correct, Your Honor, no 

crime, and the reason for that -- I'll go one step 
further -- is because there's no way of knowing whether 
the Government --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But that's not an 

element.  You talk about essential facts and material --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

I mean, the statute makes it a crime to intentionally 
attempt to enter the United States having previously 
been deported and all that.  It doesn't say anything 
about presenting false identification.  So why are those 
essential facts when they're not part of what the 
statute prohibits?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Because that is -- there must 

be facts to show what the overt act was.  Just providing 
a legal memorandum of what the elements of the offense 
are doesn't do any good.  What the Constitution 
contemplates is that the essential facts be laid out.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Suppose this indictment 

charged not an attempt to enter, but unlawful entry. 
Then the indictment would be sufficient, right?  There 
wouldn't be any problem with it?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, if it --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It charged, not an 

attempt, but an unlawful entry.  Anything missing from 
the indictment?

 MR. BAGGOT:  No, because that's a general 

intent crime.  There's no specific intent and no 
requirement that he perform any overt act.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  And the defendant could be 
convicted of an attempt under such an indictment, could 
he not? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

MR. BAGGOT:  Under such an indictment, under 

this case he could not, because he was under the 
constant surveillance of the INS at the time and in law 
that is not a legal indictment, not a legal reentry, an 
illegal reentry.  It's one of those quirks in the law, 
and that's why they charged the attempt, to avoid these 
questions of whether he was under the constant control 
and surveillance of the immigration authorities, which 
he was.  He never got by secondary.  So that's why the 
charge was attempt as opposed to unlawful entry.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  But in that situation, you 
wouldn't know what the substantial step was, would you?

 MR. BAGGOT:  No, and --
JUSTICE ALITO:  The indictment wouldn't tell 

you what the substantial step was.

 MR. BAGGOT:  And there wouldn't be any need 

either because it's not a specific intent crime and 
there's no requirement --

JUSTICE ALITO:  If the defendant was 

convicted of the lesser included offense of attempt 
under an indictment charging the completed offense?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Attempt is not a lesser 

included.  The Congress has intended to make attempt on 
the same level as the substantive offense.  That is the 
way the case law has been coming out.  So whether he 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

enters, whether he attempts, or whether he's found in 
the United States are all on an equal par.  It's not a 
lesser included.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, I don't understand 

that.  You're saying it's a separate offense, but a 
lesser included offense is a separate offense.  It just 
happens to be embraced within some other offense.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, it has the same guideline 

punishment.  It has the same treatment as the unlawful 
entry.  And they're treated -- we have case law in our 
circuit that says, I think it is Corrales Beltran, that 
says the attempt is a substantive offense, even though 
it sounds contradictory.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What does that mean, if 

you're tried for illegal entry and the Government 
doesn't prove the illegal entry because you're under 
supervision when you get in, the jury could not convict 
of attempt?

 MR. BAGGOT:  If he was charged that way, 
they probably could, yes.  There could be a two-count 
indictment or there could be alternatives.  But that 
wasn't this case.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And that would be okay, 

just charge with attempt without setting forth the overt 
acts for the attempt? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

MR. BAGGOT:  Well, they would have to set 

out the overt act and the essential facts that 
constitute the overt act.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Suppose that it's an 

assault and the indictment says on such and such a day, 
at such and such a time, he assaulted the postman, 
right?  You also have to say what, that he waved his 
fist or that he had a knife?  You have to say that in 
the indictment?

 MR. BAGGOT:  No, I don't think so.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  No.  All right.  So I 
thought normally essential facts means simply the 
facts -- you can state the essential facts by writing 
the statute and normally that tells you.  Now, is that 
true?  One case that seems to go the other way is 
Russell.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Normally, yes, sir.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Normally, yes.
 MR. BAGGOT:  That's correct.  However, in 

this case there is a peculiar meaning to the word 
"attempt" that when Congress used the word "attempt" 
they meant to bring with that word its requirements 
under the common law.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Why more than any other 

word in the statute?  "Attempt," people know what that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company 

means.

Official 

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, they do and they don't.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  And they also know what 

"assault" means.  And if you tried, you could spell out 
"assault."  They know what "robbery" means, but you 
could spell it out.

 So why does the Ninth Circuit think this one 
you have to spell out, but all the other words you don't 
have to?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, that's why they had an en 
banc determination, because the judges were in disarray 
over that question.  But at the time of this trial of 
the en banc decision in the Ninth Circuit, 
Gracidas-Ulibarry, had established concretely that the 
intent of the legislature was to incorporate the common 
law meaning of the word "attempt."

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Baggot, could I come 
back to your answer to my earlier question.  You said 
you could only be convicted of the lesser included 
offense if the lesser included offense is set forth 
explicitly in the indictment.  Are you sure of that?

 MR. BAGGOT:  No, sir.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Are you sure that's the 

law?

 MR. BAGGOT:  No, but here under 1326 it's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

quite different.  The intent of the legislature was that 
the attempt would itself be a substantive offense.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  As I said in my previous 

question, every lesser included offense is itself a 
substantive offense.  That doesn't distinguish attempt 
from anything else.  And my understanding is if you're 
charged with a greater offense, the lesser can be a 
subject of conviction even though it's not explicitly 
set forth in the indictment.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Yes, that's correct.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And if that is the case 

here, then it seems to me he could have been convicted 
of attempt without ever having had set forth in the 
indictment the overt act that you demand.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Well, that's a good point.  But 
under our -- all I can tell you, Justice Scalia, is that 
under our case law the attempt is considered a 
substantive offense.  That's been the law --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But substantive offense 

is one thing.  Lesser included, I think you said earlier 
it couldn't be a lesser included because it's subject to 
the same punishment.  So it is not lesser?

 MR. BAGGOT:  Under this statute, under 1326, 

that's the ruling of our circuit.

 Your Honor, in conclusion, I'd just like to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

emphasize that if the Government's position is adapted, 
what you will have is judges reviewing the decision of 
the grand jury whether or not to allege certain 
elements, essential elements of offenses.  That is 
challenging the independence of the grand jury, which is 
part of the structure set up by the Constitution, that 
the grand jury is a separate institution.  Anything that 
the grand jury does, any mistakes that are made, need to 
be returned to the grand jury and not be reviewed by a 
single judge, a panel of judges, or an en banc or any 
court.

 Are there any other questions by the Court?
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Baggot.

 MR. BAGGOT:  Thank you, sir.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Dreeben, you 

have three minutes.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. DREEBEN:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Dreeben, is attempt a 
lesser included offense of the substantive offense of 
illegal reentry?

 MR. DREEBEN:  It's a substantive offense. 

It is an attempt offense.  I wouldn't necessarily 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

describe it as lesser included, but Rule 31 of the 
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure does allow a trial 
judge to submit an attempt offense to the petit jury 
when attempt is a violation of the substantive law.

 I should say that the Government's position 
is that there does not need to be a separate charge of 
attempt in the indictment in order to permit Rule 31 to 
operate, but there is a circuit split over whether 
lesser included offenses can be submitted to the jury 
unless they are included in the indictment.

 So we're not operating under a uniform rule 
that would always allow us to do that, and I'm not sure 
which way the Ninth Circuit goes on that, although I 
could hazard a guess.

 (Laughter.)
 The problem that we have here is that we are 

living under a rule of law in the Ninth Circuit and in 
at least one other circuit that forces the Government to 
pay a tremendous penalty when a mistake is made in an 
indictment, and it does happen.  Justice Souter, I can 
assure you that judges dismiss plenty of indictments for 
failure to dismiss -- state elements, but they don't get 
them all.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But Mr. Dreeben, isn't the 

point that the tremendous cost that you refer to is a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

tremendous cost that the Government pays by its choice 
to go to trial, as opposed to going back to the grand 
jury and making sure that it has an adequate indictment?
 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, the Government is often 
quite confident that it's correct.  And I think if you 
put yourself in the position of the prosecutors in this 
case, you can see why that's true.  But there are myriad 
rules and sub-rules of substantive law that this Court 
will never review, that require the Government to 
conform with various pleading obligations.  They're all 
below the radar screen.  But when you have a rule of 
automatic reversal like this, they jump up to 
prominence.  And the reason that they do is because the 
entire criminal justice system, victims, witnesses, the 
judge, the prosecutors, the defense bar, jurors, 
everybody is being asked to go through a trial that was 
conducted on an error-free basis by hypothesis, simply 
because there was a mistake at the charging phase.  And 
the petit jury's verdict we submit makes it clear that 
that mistake does not entitle the judicial system to say 
let's throw it all out and start again simply as a 
prophylactic mechanism.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  If you concede there was 

an error, is there anything to prevent us from saying we 
don't accept that concession, and have you rebrief and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

argue the question of whether or not an overt act is 
required?

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I hope that if the Court 

does not choose to decide the question on which it 
granted certiorari, that it does hold that the Ninth 
Circuit's substantive rule of law here is incorrect, and 
that there was nothing wrong with the indictment.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But can we do that in the 

face of your concession without having reargument?

 MR. DREEBEN:  Oh, I think this Court can do 

anything it chooses, regardless of the Government's 
concession.

 (Laughter.)
 But we're not conceding that the Ninth 
Circuit was correct.  We simply didn't challenge it 
because the important question for us is the rule of law 
on harmless error.  This pleading rule is something that 
we can comply with.  It may be wrong, but it's 
something, like many wrong rules of law, we live with.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, 

Mr. Dreeben.  The case is submitted.
 MR. DREEBEN:  Thank you.
 (Whereupon, at 11:01 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

ability 30:23 
able 15:2 20:13 

24:17 

above-entitled 

1:11 54:24 
absence 28:3 
absent 21:10 
absolute 28:15 
Absolutely 27:7 
abstract 43:14 
accept 17:18 

accompanied 

accomplished 

53:25 

36:25 

9:4 

accusation 40:1 
accused 23:3,8 
23:10,13,15 
24:10 37:2,20 
38:5 

acknowledge 

acknowledged 

14:23 

19:2 

acquitted 32:25 
act 11:8,8 12:25 

16:11 18:3 
21:4 27:17,21 
31:21,23 33:8 
33:12,14,15 
34:21,23,25 
35:4,5,9 36:9 
38:10,14,19,20 
40:4 41:18 
45:8,22 48:2,3 
50:14 54:1 

acts 33:10 35:11 

38:8,9 39:1 
47:25 

actual 13:12 
adapted 51:1 
addition 37:24 

39:13 40:5 

address 38:17 
adduced 6:4,11 

adequacy 20:2 

29:19 

adequate 8:2 

14:13,25 17:6 
17:11 23:23,24 
24:25 53:3 
adopt 20:1 
advance 5:11 

7:10 

agent 36:17 
aggravating 

agree 8:12 15:3 

14:1 

17:3 

8:9,13,24 
11:24 21:10 
29:7,12,13 
43:2,10,17 
44:1,3 49:18 
answered 6:21 
31:16 43:14 

anyway 6:7 
Apache 1:18 
appeal 21:2,17 
21:18 29:25 
31:2,2 34:8 
38:10,12 

alert 24:19 
Alito 8:3,16,17 
9:22 10:10,21 
20:15,24 21:13 
30:3,5 31:1,4 
36:6,13 45:23  APPEARAN... 
46:11,14,19 
allegation 9:6 
37:14 43:4 

appeals 27:11 
33:15 34:22 
appear 16:13 

1:14 

applied 35:20 
applies 3:16 
apply 5:18 21:20 

allege 4:4,9 8:2 

40:3 

approached 
10:7 36:9 

approaching 

42:9 

appropriate 
24:24 25:1 

area 29:15 
arguable 14:11 
argue 14:23 

54:1 

14:1 16:11 
33:8 38:21,25 
41:5,21 51:3 
alleged 8:8,10 
15:6 24:2,14 
34:9 41:15,20 
41:22 42:16,16 
42:25 

alleging 8:1 
allow 52:2,12 
allowed 6:16 
alternatives 

amend 7:15 33:7 

47:21 

33:7 

amendment 

3:14,18 10:20 
13:7 21:8,24 
25:12 27:1 
36:18 44:16 
amounts 29:16 
analogous 6:15 

13:10 21:1 

Official 

Page 55 

analysis 3:15 5:8  aspect 20:7 

8:11 14:6 

aspects 25:14 
answer 6:22 8:5  Asphalt 20:25 

21:7 22:2 

assault 11:15 
27:24 48:5
49:4,5

assaulted 28:2

48:6

assume 18:22
28:21 31:20

assuming 28:19
assumption 4:7
assure 52:21
ATMORE 1:18

2:6 26:15
atmosphere

14:2,5

attempt 4:10,19
5:17 8:1,20,22
9:3 10:14
11:12,14,20
12:23 39:24
42:12 45:2,13
45:18,24 46:6 
46:10,20,22,23
47:12,18,24,25
48:21,21,25
49:16 50:2,5
50:13,17 51:21 
51:25 52:3,4,7
attempted 10:5
39:9,22 40:4 

attempting
35:24 38:7
attempts 9:17

automatically

25:3

avoid 46:6
a.m 1:13 3:2 

54:23

B
B 41:21
back 4:12 10:10 
10:11,18 15:14 
17:25 18:9
20:13 28:6
33:2,5,7 40:21 
49:18 53:2

Baggot 1:18 2:6 

26:14,15,17
27:7 28:7,10
28:12,19,23
29:1,4,9,13,20
29:24 30:4,21
31:3,6,25 32:2 
32:6,10 33:20 
33:23 34:5,14
34:17 35:1,4
35:10,15 36:3 
36:12,19 37:12 
38:3,16,24
39:17,23 40:7 
40:14 41:4,8
41:19,25 42:3 
42:8,14,23
43:9,13,24
44:5,15,20
45:7,16,20
46:1,13,16,22
47:8,19 48:1 
48:10,17,19
49:2,10,17,22
49:25 50:10,15
50:23 51:14,15

banc 49:11,13

51:10

bank 11:17

27:24 39:6,8,9
bar 26:6 53:15 
based 7:25

12:19 37:12

11:15,16,16,17
11:17 47:1

argument 1:12 
2:2,5,8 3:3,7 
13:4 15:4 
17:18,19 22:16  Attorney 7:16
26:15 40:23 
41:7 51:18 
arises 19:16 
Ariz 1:18 
Article 18:23 
asked 13:8 

Attorney's 7:24
authorities 46:8
authority 30:23

automatic 5:19

35:18

7:13 16:13
25:4,7 26:1 
53:12

17:19 53:16 
asking 13:24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

basic 32:18 33:9 
basically 29:2 
basis 6:11 8:22 
9:11,23 25:18 
25:25 53:17 
beginning 4:24 

5:4 

behalf 1:16,19 
2:4,7,10 3:8 
26:16 33:25 
51:19 

believe 7:25 

26:6 28:7 29:9 
31:3 37:13 

belonging 39:10 
Beltran 47:11 
better 13:22 

32:20 

beyond 3:20 

4:18 6:20 7:3,7 
9:21 17:7 
19:17 20:12 
22:13 25:19 
bicycle 41:16 

42:7,13 

bill 24:22 33:18 

33:23 40:25 

body 27:10 

32:12 35:16 

bolt 7:22 
border 10:1,7 
19:23 36:9,10 
41:15 42:9 

borrowing 22:1 
breathes 9:9 
Breyer 11:6,9 
11:10,23 15:8 
15:20 18:16 
23:1,16,19 
24:1,9 27:22 
28:8,11,13,21 
28:25 29:3,7 
29:11,14,23 
31:12,16 33:18 
33:21 37:4,16 
39:2,20 40:2,8 
40:18,22 48:4 

Official 

Page 56 

48:11,18,24 
49:3 

Breyer's 31:20 
bring 12:17 

48:22 

businesses 26:24 

C
C 2:1 3:1 
calls 20:22
car 9:9 10:1,2 
careful 5:4
carefully 5:1
carrier 31:12,18
case 6:15 7:17 

central 39:21 
century 10:12 

10:19 

certain 51:3 
certainly 9:15 

36:3 41:10 

certainty 28:16 
certiorari 9:2 

54:5 

cetera 19:10 

40:13 

challenge 9:1 

13:3,6,14 
54:15 

chooses 54:11 
circuit 4:7,8,17 
8:1 9:20 10:17 
10:22,25 11:2 
11:7,25 12:14 
12:16,18 16:9 
23:5 25:1 
36:10 47:11 
49:7,13 50:24 
52:8,13,17,18 
54:15 

circuits 15:23 

16:7 

Circuit's 7:20 

completed 7:7 

33:10 40:4 
committee 

40:16 

committing 23:3 
common 9:12,17 

22:24 24:6 
48:23 49:15 

commonly 24:2 
comparable

19:6 

compare 6:23 
complete 28:3 

34:17 

46:21 

completely 12:1 
completion 4:20 

9:18 10:6 

complications

33:5 

comply 7:14 
42:21 54:18 
compromised

20:4 

concede 5:20 
31:17 53:23 

conceded 16:16 
conceding 54:14 
conceivably

33:3 

concept 10:16 
concepts 41:10 
concerned 18:18 
concerns 26:24 
concession 

12:22 53:25 
54:9,12 

7:18 10:24
12:10,22,23
13:2,14,23,25
14:1,3,8,11,14
14:18,24 15:3 
15:9 16:14
18:19 19:3
20:25 21:7
22:19 24:6,6
25:6 29:23
30:7,14,15,24
31:5,12 33:2 
35:20 36:24
37:18 40:8,10
40:14 42:23
43:3,6,11,11
43:17,18,20
44:4,5,9,13
46:2,25 47:10 
47:22 48:15,20
50:11,17 53:7 
54:21,23

9:3 12:20 54:6 

challenged 26:7 
challenging 51:5  circumstance 
chance 5:6 41:1 
chances 15:17 

circumstances 

14:1 

23:14,17 

change 13:18 

16:7 

character 13:19 
characterize 

44:12 

charge 8:23 

11:19 32:15 
43:5 46:10 
47:24 52:6 

charged 14:13 
20:16,21 30:7 
30:12 32:19 
37:3 38:6,6 
45:13,17 46:6 
47:19 50:7 
charges 8:18 
charging 26:20 

44:18 46:21 
53:18 

37:1 

citizens 26:23 
city 39:7 
claim 13:7 14:9 

15:1 24:24 
25:16,23 

Clark 13:10 
clear 10:23 

15:24 17:12 
23:4 30:6 
53:19 

clearly 36:24 

38:6 42:6 

clerical 30:6,17 
30:22,24 31:7 

close 12:1,2 

15:13 

closed 27:9,13 

28:24 30:1 

cases 8:1 12:7,7 

12:19 15:23
16:3 24:12,16

case-specific
15:1 25:25

cause 6:3,9 7:4 
14:21 16:20,25
19:19 22:13
25:17 32:14

causes 21:12,15

Chief 3:3,9 6:1 

Code 9:20 11:13  concluded 4:9 
come 12:2 15:8 
40:21 49:17 

conclusion 8:13 
17:13,15 50:25 
comes 4:1 11:11  concretely 49:14 
conducted 53:17 
confident 53:5 
conflict 25:8 

24:14 31:1,2 

6:12 16:22 
17:4 26:11,14 
26:17 35:22 
44:24 51:13,16  coming 37:2 
51:20 54:20 
choice 12:14 

46:25 

commerce 24:13  conform 53:10 
commit 42:9 
confronted 6:14 
committed 23:8 

6:18 

choose 54:4 

53:1 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

Page 57 

confused 39:4 
Congress 46:23 

conscientiously 

48:21 

5:17 

consent 20:17 
consequential 

6:25 

consider 29:6,6 
considered 

50:17 

considering 8:8 
consist 39:14 
consisted 39:13 
conspiracy 

32:3 45:24 
46:20 49:19 
50:12 

created 21:9 

36:24 

26:19 

15:2 22:13 
26:8 28:6 32:4 
32:6 50:8 
convictions 

conviction 12:16  crime 10:7 23:2 
23:8,10,12,15 
27:23 28:18 
33:11 36:22 
37:19 42:10 
44:18,21 45:1 
45:21 46:17 
criminal 8:6 

12:19 30:11 
convicts 7:7 
copy 34:18 
corner 39:7 
Corrales 47:11 
correct 4:2 

10:12,12 24:18  demanding 
26:21 52:2 
10:11,18 
53:14 

25:22 26:3 
30:19 32:23 
34:2,6 39:8 
45:23 46:19 

discrete 15:6 
dismiss 4:3 7:12 

15:12 20:18 
52:21,22 

defendants 24:2  disproportion... 

24:16 

defense 24:5 

30:15,25 53:15 

deficient 44:15 
definition 10:15 
demand 50:14 

16:14 

distinction 

22:23 

distinguish 
31:11 50:5 
district 7:10 
18:14 27:20 
document 10:2 

27:13 

denied 4:6 24:4 
deny 4:14 17:21  documents 
denying 37:16 
36:15,17
door 27:9 
Department 
doors 27:13 

1:16 

depending 

13:19 

deported 45:3 
Deputy 1:15 
describe 52:1 
description 37:3 
destination 10:9 
detail 36:18 
39:18,20 

determination 
14:21 49:11 

28:23 30:1,2

double 26:6 
doubt 3:21 4:19 

6:21 7:3,8
13:22 17:8,20
19:17 20:12 
22:14 25:20 
35:2 

doubtful 18:19 
draw 20:24 

22:23 

20:9 

29:18 

different 9:19 

difference 22:9 

14:2,4,5,17,18 
40:23 41:2,13 
41:17,19,24 
42:7,19 50:1 

determine 16:24  Dreeben 1:15 
2:3,9 3:6,7,9 
4:2 5:9,15,24
6:12 7:9,18,20
8:3,16 9:1,12 
9:15 10:4,21
11:9,22 12:13 
13:1 14:4,19
15:20 17:3 
18:13,22 19:15 
19:24 20:23 
22:1,7,15,19
23:14,18,25
24:12 25:14 
26:2,5,12,13
51:16,18,20,21
51:24 52:24 
53:4 54:3,10 

difficult 9:8 
directed 22:21 
directly 7:24 
directs 21:4 
disagree 26:2 
disarray 49:11 
disclosed 28:20 
discovery 24:21 

34:18 

11:11 38:25 

constant 46:3,7 
constitute 8:7 

11:13 30:23 
31:7 37:10 
43:24 44:20 
48:19 50:10 
53:5 54:15 
constituted 36:9  correctible 
Constitution 

28:14 

48:3 

13:15 26:19,22  cost 52:25 53:1 
29:20 42:22 
45:10 51:6 

counsel 3:24 

4:23 

constitutional 

13:4 25:18 
33:4 37:5,6 

Constitutionally 

contemplated 

44:15 

25:5 

contemplates 
29:21 45:11 
contest 41:1 
context 14:17 

contradictory 

20:6 

47:13 

30:25 

Contreras-Ro... 

control 46:7 
conventional 

24:23 

convict 6:11 
17:7 47:17 

convicted 20:19 

country 9:10 
10:25 26:20 

course 20:4 

23:16 35:20 
court 1:1,12 

3:10,11 4:25 
5:1,3,18 6:13 
6:18 7:2,10,12 
9:2 11:3 12:5 
13:2,8,16 
16:13,17 17:14 
19:2 20:1,8,25 
21:3,7,11 
22:22 25:6 
26:18 31:6 
33:14 34:17,21 
37:13 40:9 
42:25 51:11,12 
53:8 54:3,10 

courts 9:21 

10:25 18:14 
24:2 

30:8,13,16,19  Court's 29:5 

cured 40:24 

D

D 3:1
date 15:7 39:21 
day 5:12 48:5 
dealt 21:8
death 14:1
decide 7:6,10
12:3 13:2,16
16:20,20,23
54:4

decided 12:14

13:16

deciding 26:25
decision 7:1
16:8 17:12
29:22 32:16
37:13,15 49:13 
51:2

declaration 12:4
defect 8:8,10,14
8:18 14:12,24
21:12,14 25:21 

defective 7:12

7:21 25:16
defects 17:14

24:1

defend 10:22
defendant 14:13
14:23 15:12,18
16:21 19:5,12
23:2 24:4,19

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

Page 58 

54:21,22 

entire 5:2 53:14 

drew 20:25 21:2  entirely 41:18 
entitle 53:20 
drives 9:9 
entitled 33:16 
driving 12:9 
drove 10:1 
D.C 1:8,16 
E 
E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 49:18 

34:21 45:13,18 
46:10 47:10,15 
47:16 

35:14,15 43:22 

entry 33:14 

18:3 19:8,22 
21:6 22:21 
28:1,3,5,16 
29:2,6,19 
30:10 31:14,17 
31:22 32:24 
34:2,13 38:15 
41:1,16 

evidentiary 20:2 
exact 30:25 38:5 
exactly 8:21 
12:18 14:8 
20:8 31:4 39:2 

example 13:9 

48:12,13,13 
factual 8:22 

9:23 

fail 13:11 14:25 
failed 4:9 
fails 24:25 
failure 4:4 13:25 

31:17 42:21 
52:22 

fairly 13:10 
false 10:8 19:22 

34:3,13,25 
36:2 45:4 

families 26:24 
far 5:12 20:15 
20:23 22:16 
28:15 29:17 
42:4,15 

fashion 24:5 
faulty 23:20 
favored 33:24 
Federal 16:2 
26:21 52:2 

feel 34:8 
felon 30:8,13,16 
felony 20:17,21 

30:11,19 
fessed 19:2 

21:8 25:12 
27:1 36:18 
44:16 

file 34:18 35:8 
filed 24:22 
filled 11:13 
find 6:5 16:10 
30:12 32:13 
37:23 40:8 

finding 4:15,19 

7:3 

fine 15:15 16:15 
finished 28:5 
firearm 30:8 
first 3:4 5:9 8:15 

8:25 25:15 
34:3 

fist 39:14 48:8 

fits 24:7 
five 30:10 
followed 40:20 
following 10:23 

38:23 39:1 

force 39:10,10 

39:13 

forced 9:13 
forces 52:18 
foreseeable 7:24 
formulation 

9:20 

forth 23:11 

31:21 37:19 
47:24 49:20 
50:9,13

fortiori 7:4 
17:16,18

found 5:23 6:20 

13:7 19:18 
20:11 25:19 
27:22 31:15 
32:2 40:9 47:1 

Fourth 13:7 
frame 10:20 
framed 25:24 
framers 26:22 
frankly 33:6 
free 12:23 33:5 
front 6:24 
fulfill 44:16 
function 32:13 
32:14 43:22,23
functions 16:15 

38:4 

fundamental 
14:19 16:19 
21:16 22:25 
fundamentally
21:24 25:10 
further 36:1 

44:22 

furtherance 
33:11 39:24 

G

G 3:1

error-free 53:17  extent 18:25 
ESQ 1:15,18 2:3 

25:15,21 43:13  Fifth 3:18 10:20 

50:20 

easily 12:7 
effect 5:7 17:10 

either 17:24 

24:13 

46:17 

element 3:12,16 
6:9 8:6 11:2,3 
11:6 13:13 
16:17 17:24,25 
18:4 23:7 28:4 
28:17 34:11 
41:13,14 43:4 
44:6,25 

elements 3:19 
4:4,17 5:22 
22:22 32:18 
36:22 37:9 
45:9 51:4,4 
52:22 

embraced 47:7 
emerges 27:13 
empanelled 

15:11 

emphasize 51:1 
empirical 15:21 

en 6:21 49:10,13 

15:22 

51:10 

enable 9:10 
enhancements 

enlightenment 

32:17 

39:15 

enter 8:2 10:5 
35:24 45:2,13 

enters 47:1 

14:2 16:9 

equal 47:2 
equally 42:20 
erroneously 4:6 
error 3:13,17 
5:5,7,21 6:19 
6:24,25 8:7,11 
11:25 12:3 
13:11,17,20 
14:10 18:4 
22:20 23:6,6 
24:23 25:17 
27:6 28:14,14  Excuse 7:5 
28:15 29:16,17  experience 
30:6,7,22,24 
33:2 41:2 
53:24 54:17 
errors 21:16 

39:20 

18:14 

13:9 

examples 13:5 
excessive 39:18 

exclusionary 

explicitly 7:2 
49:21 50:8 

extended 16:9 
extension 7:23 

31:7 

2:6,9 

essence 43:20 
essential 36:21 
36:23 39:19 
40:7,15 41:5,9 
44:25 45:5,11 
48:2,12,13 
51:4 

established 

49:14 

et 19:10 40:12 
evaluate 17:14 
eventual 6:3 
everybody 

33:10 53:16 

evidence 5:7 6:3 
6:6,10,23 17:2 
17:4,6,6,11 

F

face 10:24 11:4 

54:9

facing 14:3

24:20

fact 4:3 8:12 
17:23 18:14
19:3,21 20:21 
27:21 30:18
39:19,21 40:23 
40:25

facts 15:2 36:21 

36:23 37:1,8
37:14,25 40:6 
40:7,15 41:5,9 
41:11 44:25
45:5,8,11 48:2 

Alderson Reporting Company 

10:23 

22:12 

generic 8:5 

getting 8:25 

general 1:15 
36:22 37:2 
40:10 45:20 

13:3,6 16:12 
17:2,5 18:2,9 
20:13 24:14 
25:2 27:1,17 
33:5,6,12,25 
34:9,12,20 
35:8 38:8,13 
Ginsburg 5:20 
38:19 40:1 
44:23 47:15 
5:24 7:16,19 
12:21 13:1 
52:18 53:1,4,9 
19:20,25 31:11  Government's 
34:1,5,10,15 
34:24 35:2,7 
38:13 45:12,17 
50:19 

9:16 11:18 
35:17 39:24 
51:1 52:5 
54:11 

give 14:25 21:16  Gracidas-Ulib... 

49:14 

grand 3:17,25 
4:12 6:17,24 
6:25 14:24 
16:19,25 17:5 
17:9,16 18:10 
19:18,21,22,24 
20:2,3,9,13 
21:11,15,15 
27:8,9,17,19 
28:17 29:5,21 
30:1,9 31:9,23 
32:10,11,13,15 
32:19,22,24 
33:1,2,3,25 
35:14,15,19,21 
35:23 38:4 
43:21,23 44:7 
44:7,9,12 51:3 
51:5,7,8,9 53:2 
grant 18:9,15,15 

18:17 

24:25 39:15 

given 19:15 

28:22 29:18 
42:8 

gives 30:22 
go 5:2 9:13 

10:17 15:14 
17:25 18:8,9 
18:12 20:15,23 
23:11,11 28:6 
32:24 33:2,5,7 
35:6 36:17 
44:10,21 48:15 
53:2,16 

goes 15:18 25:16 

25:22 43:23 
44:14 52:13 
going 4:23,24 
6:5 7:1 10:22 
12:18 17:21 
18:4,21 23:21 
24:15 32:4,19 
33:11 34:12 
35:8 39:18 
53:2 

granted 9:2 54:5 
greater 50:7 
group 26:22 
good 12:24 16:9  guard 10:8,8 

45:10 50:15 

gotten 4:12 
govern 13:25 
Government 
4:11 12:2,4 

guess 4:1 27:16 

27:19 52:14 
guideline 47:8 
guilt 6:4,20 

25:19 

Official 

Page 59 

guilty 3:20 

16:21 19:16 
20:11 21:4 
32:2 

gun 39:14 
H

halfway 24:9
Hamling 36:24

37:13 40:9

hand 5:18 18:2 

34:18

happen 15:17 
16:4,4 52:20 
happened 4:5 
27:9,12,15,16 
27:23 29:1 
31:8 

happens 15:19 

17:22 47:7 

hard 13:24 14:9 

23:13 37:22 
harmless 3:13 
3:18 5:5,7,21 
6:19 8:7,11,12 
13:11,17 18:4 
21:5 22:20 
24:23 27:6 
29:15 54:17 
harmlessness 

17:15 

hazard 52:14 
hear 3:3 
heard 34:4 
hearing 40:16 
hearty 18:23 
heavy 5:18 
held 3:12 21:10 
helpful 15:21 

23:5 

historical 17:6,9 
historically 

16:25 

history 17:13 

29:4 

hoked-up 12:10 
hold 9:8 54:5 

holding 9:3 
Honor 29:4 

30:21 34:5,14 
37:12 38:3 
44:5,20 50:25 
hope 24:1 54:3 
hypothesis 

53:17 

hypothetical 
21:13 31:20 

I

identically

16:15

identification
34:25 45:4

identifications

10:8 19:23
34:3,13

identified 38:19
IDs 36:2
III 18:23
illegal 46:5

47:15,16 51:23 

imagine 6:2
immigration

impermissible

46:8

21:4

important 12:6
13:18 20:3,7
25:3 54:16
impose 25:1
improperly 11:3
inadequate

15:13 16:11
25:22

inadequately

25:24

incentives 7:13
included 46:20
46:23 47:3,6
49:19,20 50:4 
50:20,21 51:22 
52:1,9,10
incorporate
13:12 49:15

incorrect 54:6 
independence 

51:5 

independent 
27:10 29:21 
32:11,12 35:16 
indicated 18:16 
indict 6:7 17:1,2 

17:5 

indicted 16:3,23

35:24 36:1,4

indictment 3:17 
3:25 4:9,13,15
6:4,10 7:11,17 
7:21 8:7,14,18
9:5,22 10:3,4 
10:19 12:25 
14:12,24 15:6 
15:15 16:10,15
18:10,16 20:9 
20:14 21:10,12
21:13,14,22,23
22:6,6,10 23:1 
23:9,20 24:5 
24:11,24 25:13 
25:16,22,23
27:14,20 30:18 
31:10,10,21
33:7,8 36:1,7 
36:14,20 37:19 
38:4 40:24 
41:3,4,15 43:5 
43:7,11,18,21
44:18 45:12,14
45:19,24 46:1 
46:4,14,21
47:21 48:5,9
49:21 50:9,14
52:7,10,20
53:3 54:7 

indictments 4:4 

11:1 12:17 
38:25 52:21 
indictment's 

individual 28:1 

15:13 

30:13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official 

Page 60 

27:14 

28:22,25 29:1 
31:8 33:12 
34:11,19,19,20 
35:21 37:5 
38:1,7 39:13 
39:25 41:10 
46:12 48:25 
49:3,5 

29:23 30:3,5 
31:1,4,11,12 
31:16,19,20 
32:1,3,8 33:18 
33:21 34:1,5 
34:10,15,24 
35:2,7,12,22 
36:6,13 37:4 
37:16 38:13,21  knowing 44:22 
39:2,20 40:2,8  knowledge
40:18,21,22 
41:6,12,23 
42:1,6,11,17 
43:2,3,10,16 
43:25 44:2,3
44:11,17,24
45:12,17,23
46:11,14,19
47:4,14,23
48:4,11,18,24
49:3,17,23
50:3,11,16,19
51:13,16,20,21
52:20,24 53:14 
53:23 54:8,20

L 1:18 2:6 26:15 
lack 24:17 34:15 

large 15:25
Laughter 52:15

8:19 21:8 22:1 
36:25

known 27:15 
knows 23:24 

41:7 42:21

laid 45:11
language 7:25

54:13

L

law 4:7,8 5:17 

induce 4:25 5:3 
induced 17:21 
influence 19:9 
inform 37:1,20 
information 
20:17,19,22 
initially 37:19 
inquiries 24:23 
inquiry 21:22 

24:7 

INS 46:3 
inside 27:9 
instances 17:8,9 
institution 51:7 
institutional 
32:12 35:16 

instructed 3:19 

4:16 5:23 
instruction 

13:15 

instructions 
3:13 13:12 
insufficient 

44:17 

intended 10:9 
31:10 46:23 

intent 35:6 42:9 
45:21,21 46:17 
49:15 50:1 

intention 26:21 
intentionally 
35:24 45:1 

interesting 12:6 
interlocutory 

21:2,18 

interpretation 

16:7 

interpreted 4:8 
interstate 24:13 
introduce 31:17 
introduced 

30:10 31:23 

introduces 

38:15 

intrusion 22:25 
involve 4:19 
involved 14:8 

involves 13:10 
issue 10:24 

13:10,23 14:3 
15:9,24 19:15 
37:7 41:17,20 

issued 21:11 
issues 15:23 
i.e 43:21 
J

jeopardy 26:6

33:4

JUAN 1:6
judge 4:6,6,11

4:14 5:16
15:17 16:5 
17:19,20,21 
18:7,8,19 19:3 
19:14 20:18 
21:3 22:20 
25:7 27:11,20 
30:22 35:18 
51:10 52:3 
53:15 

judges 7:13 

18:23,25 49:11 
51:2,10 52:21 

judge's 14:7 
judging 41:24 
judgment 33:16 
judgments 

30:11 

judicial 53:20 
jump 53:12 
Junction 1:18 
juries 17:5,7,9 

17:10 

jurisdictions 

9:19 

jurors 53:15 
jury 3:13,15,18 
3:23,25 4:12 
4:16,18 5:22 
5:23 6:17,20 
6:24 7:7 13:12 
14:24 15:11 
16:20 17:1,14 

17:16 18:10 
19:9,16,18,21 
19:22,24 20:3 
20:3,9,13,20 
21:11,15,15 
22:21 25:19 
27:5,8,9,15,17 
27:19 28:17 
29:5,21 30:1,9 
30:12 31:9,15 
31:23 32:10,11 
32:12,13,15,22 
32:24 33:1,3,3 
33:25 34:7,7 
35:14,15,19,21 
35:23 38:4 
43:21,23 44:7 
44:7,9,12 
47:17 51:3,5,7 
51:8,9 52:3,9 
53:3 

jury's 3:17 7:1 
14:22 29:10 
32:19 53:19 

justice 1:16 3:3 
3:9,22 4:2,22 
5:9,13,20,24
6:1,13 7:5,9,16 
7:19 8:3,16,17
9:7,13,16,22
9:25 10:10,21
11:6,9,10,23
12:21 13:1,21
14:7 15:3,8,20
16:22 17:4,17
18:13,15,17
19:4,20,25
20:15,24 21:13 
21:21 22:5,8
22:17 23:1,16
23:19 24:1,9
24:19 25:2,9
25:15 26:2,5
26:11,14,17
27:4,22 28:8 
28:11,13,21,25
29:3,7,11,14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

K

Kennedy 3:22 
4:3 9:7,13,16 
9:25 21:21 
22:5 25:9,15 
27:4 38:21 
40:21 41:6 
53:23 54:8 

kind 14:3 21:16 

21:19 22:24 
23:24 

kinds 24:23 
knew 34:14 35:7 

35:8,9 38:6 

knife 39:14 48:8 
know 6:5 8:9,23 
10:17 19:20,21 
20:12 22:11 
23:7,10,14 
24:2,3 27:8,12 
27:25 28:16,21 

7:14 8:21 9:12 
9:17 11:11,12
16:7,7 33:17 
34:22 36:21
37:9 46:3,5,25
47:10 48:23
49:16,24 50:17 
50:18 52:4,17
53:8 54:6,16
54:19

laws 10:12,12
lawyer 8:21
23:23,24
leave 41:18
leaves 23:7
led 17:13
left 24:11
legal 10:13,24
14:6 41:17,19
45:9 46:4,4

legislature

Official 

Page 61 

notable 13:5 
notice 14:13,15 
14:22,25 15:5 
21:25 24:1,17 
24:25 25:11,22 
34:16 38:5 
39:25 40:23,24 
41:7,9 42:8,11 
42:21 

noting 9:22 
nub 43:25 
nullifying 17:10 
number 15:23 
15:25 36:11 

O 
O 2:1 3:1 
object 3:24,25 

37:18 

obligations 

obscene 40:12 

53:10 

40:12 

obscenity 40:11 
obtained 4:12 
obvious 12:3 

25:8 

occurring 15:7 
occurs 32:1 
October 1:9 

offense 3:12,16 
3:20 4:5,18,21 
8:2,6 26:21 
28:4 32:18 
37:2 38:5 45:9 
46:20,21,24 
47:5,6,6,7,12 
49:20,20 50:2 
50:4,5,7,18,19 
51:22,22,24,25 
52:3 

offenses 30:11 

51:4 52:9 
office 7:25 
Oh 28:10 54:10 
okay 47:23 

omission 3:12 
3:14,16 8:6 
42:2 

omitted 44:6 
once 6:6 7:2 
20:10 25:19 

open 28:23 30:2 
opening 11:14 
operate 52:8 
operating 52:11 
opinion 22:2 
opportunities 

24:21 

opportunity 

3:24,25 24:4 

oppose 7:17 
opposed 46:10 

53:2 

optimum 5:12 
oral 1:11 2:2,5 

3:7 26:15 

order 9:3 36:18 

52:7 

ordinary 26:23 
ought 17:15 
out-of-the-blue 

7:22 

overlapping 

41:10 

overt 11:8,8 
12:25 16:11 
27:17,21 31:21 
31:22 33:8,14 
33:15 34:20,23 
34:25 35:4,5,9 
36:9 38:10,14 
38:20 39:1 
40:4 41:18 
45:8,22 47:24 
48:2,3 50:14 
54:1 

overturn 15:2 
overwhelming 

21:6 22:22 

overwhelmingly 

19:17 

49:15 50:1 

Leon 13:5 
lesser 46:20,22 
47:3,6 49:19 
49:20 50:4,7 
50:20,21,22 
51:22 52:1,9 
letter 31:12,18 

let's 30:7 31:20 

42:21 

53:21 

level 36:18 

46:24 
lied 10:9 
line 20:24 21:2 
list 40:6 
little 12:8 37:22 
live 54:19 
living 52:17 
logic 20:8,16 

22:15 

logically 6:22 
long 5:10 
look 4:25 5:16 

8:10 15:22 
24:3 30:9 
looking 21:1 
looks 16:15 
lost 18:12 40:19 
lot 12:6,13 32:9 

40:20 

lower 13:8 
Luis 35:25 
lying 35:5 36:17 

M 

mail 11:15,16 
28:2 31:12 

mailman 27:24 
major 28:4,17 

making 12:21 

29:15 

53:3 

mandatory 

13:13 

material 42:15 
42:15 43:15 

44:6,25 

matter 1:11 

11:15,16 12:5 
21:5 33:17 
34:22 54:24 
mean 7:5 9:9,9 

12:14 16:2 
23:22 24:1 
28:8,13 37:18 
40:9 45:1 
47:14 

meaning 8:20 
10:14 48:20 
49:16 

means 24:18 
26:20 38:22 
41:20 48:12 
49:1,4,5 

meant 48:22 
Mechanik 6:14 
7:2 19:2,7 20:8 
20:16 

mechanism 

53:22 

member 16:16 
memorandum 

36:21 45:9 

met 27:1 
metaphysical 
21:22 22:6 

MICHAEL 1:15 
2:3,9 3:7 51:18 

Mickens 25:6 
Midland 20:25 

21:7 22:2 
mind 18:19 
minds 18:24 
minutes 51:17 
misled 24:5 43:8 
missing 16:17 
41:13 45:18 
mistake 30:17 

52:19 53:18,20 
mistakes 15:25 

16:4 51:8 
Model 9:20 
modification 

morning 3:4 

13:8 

35:6 

motion 4:5,15 

4:23 7:17 
15:10 17:20,22 
18:1,7,9 19:1,3 
33:13 

motions 5:10 
18:15 33:24 

move 4:1,3 
myriad 53:7 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
nature 8:8 13:19 

24:7 40:16 
near 35:25 
necessarily 6:2 

51:25 

necessary 27:18 
Neder 3:11 

17:12 21:3,3 
22:19 27:5 

need 5:18 7:13 
10:15 36:21 
46:16 51:8 
52:6 

needs 9:4,5,23 

24:13 

19:12 27:8 
46:9 53:9 
nineteenth 
10:11,19 

Ninth 4:7,8,17 

7:20 8:1 9:2,20 
10:17,22,25 
11:2,7,25 
12:14,18,19 
16:9 23:5 25:1 
36:10 49:7,13 
52:13,17 54:5 
54:14 

normally 15:10 
15:14 48:12,14 
48:17,18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

never 7:6 15:19 

39:6 

P 

P 3:1 
PAGE 2:2 
panel 51:10 
par 47:2 
part 4:10,17 

23:2 45:5 51:6 
particular 12:25 

14:10,11,24 
15:7,7 40:6 
particularly 

16:14 

particulars 

24:22 33:19,23 
40:25 

parties 4:3 
pay 52:19 
pays 53:1 
peculiar 48:20 
pejoratively 

12:8,11 
Penal 9:20 
penalty 52:19 
people 16:23 
17:1 48:25 

perfectly 11:1 

30:3,6 

perform 45:22 
performed 

43:22 

permit 52:7 
person 20:10,11 
20:19,21 21:10 
26:21 30:16 
31:14,18 37:20 

person's 20:17 
perspective 
15:21,22 

persuaded 6:22 
petit 3:12,18,23 
4:18 5:22 6:20 
14:22 17:7,9 
17:14 19:16 
20:20 25:19 
27:5 29:10 
31:14 32:12 
34:7 52:3 

1:17 2:4,10 3:8  prejudiced 
25:24 43:8 
51:19 
prejudicial 

Official 

14:16 

52:16 

19:5 24:3,7,17 
34:6,7 35:13 
42:20 

prejudicially 

Procedure 
36:20 52:2 
proceed 27:3 
proceeding 
27:10 44:8
proceedings
27:7 33:13
process 29:25
prepare 24:4 
produce 42:20
preparing 30:17  product 44:13
present 27:25 
prohibits 45:6
prominence
34:12 41:17 
presented 8:5 
10:2,8 19:23 
28:17 

53:13

39:25

6:25 

proof 17:7 24:15 

53:19 

petition 9:2 
Petitioner 1:4 

phase 53:18 
pick 38:14 
pin 37:23 
place 8:15 15:7 
places 35:18 
plainly 27:21 
played 17:10 
pleading 10:12 
10:12 14:15 
53:10 54:17 

please 3:10 

26:17 

plenty 28:5 

52:21 

poetic 22:3,5 
point 5:1,14 

presenting 

36:15,16 45:4 
presents 13:24 

41:19 

press 43:19 

31:8 

13:14 

17:8 18:3 20:9  presumption 
22:3 23:12 
25:20 35:12,13  presupposes 
35:17 38:18 
50:15 52:25 

prevent 53:24 
pool 24:16 
previous 50:3 
posed 31:13 
previously 
position 5:25 
30:19 45:2 
price 18:5,20 
9:16 30:20 
32:4,6,21 44:1  prime 42:23 
51:1 52:5 53:6  principle 21:20 
prior 7:23 8:1 

16:10 

properly 3:19
4:8 7:11 11:4 
30:12

property 39:10
prophylactic

53:22

prosecutor 6:5

15:14 16:5
27:2 30:10
prosecutors

53:6,15

prove 17:23
35:9 47:16
proved 38:9

41:21

proven 17:25
provide 38:4
40:15 41:8

possession 30:8 
possibility 23:17 
possibly 33:16 
post 25:23 
postman 27:24 

48:6 

posture 31:5 
power 30:23 
practical 20:7 
practice 5:12 
11:18 13:22 

precedents 7:23 

16:10 

prejudice 14:10 

14:21 15:1 

probable 6:3,9 

provides 26:20
providing 45:8

7:4 14:20 
16:20,24 19:18  provisions 11:19
22:13 25:17 
32:14 

probably 47:20 
problem 4:22 
6:15 9:7 15:5 
15:16 16:19 
21:1 23:24 
33:9,11,22 
34:8 35:16 
42:17 45:15 

public 27:14
punishment
47:9 50:22
purely 30:24
purpose 22:12

23:2 26:25

purposes 12:22
push 22:15
pushing 22:17
put 14:17 18:3,6 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Page 62 

19:12,13,22
22:9 44:13
53:6

putting 12:8
19:8,8 22:3 

Q

quash 4:1,23

7:17 17:20,22
18:1,8,9

question 6:19,21
7:3,6,10 8:5,24 
8:25 13:17,18
13:24 16:8
18:7 19:13
22:9 25:8,17
29:8 31:8
41:12 42:4,14
43:7,14,15
49:12,18 50:4 
54:1,4,16

questions 8:13

46:7 51:12
quirks 46:5
quite 3:22 12:5 
23:4,25 33:6 
40:19 41:2
50:1 53:5

R

R 1:15 2:3,9 3:1 

3:7 51:18
radar 53:11
raise 15:9 28:6 

28:12 29:14

raised 7:11
15:24 28:7

random 11:14
rare 35:20
rationale 41:2
reaching 8:13
reaction 14:7,18
read 11:3,4

12:15 39:3,4

real 34:8
really 7:21

12:13 13:23
14:11 15:4 

23:9 29:16 
38:17 

reargument 

54:9 

reason 7:25 15:4 

20:18 43:19 
44:21 53:13 

reasonable 3:21 
4:19 6:20 7:3,8 
17:8 19:17 
20:12 22:14 
25:19 

rebrief 53:25 
rebuttable 

13:13 

REBUTTAL 

2:8 51:18 
recite 30:18 
recites 8:19 
recognized 7:12 
record 19:25 
Recuenco 32:16 
reentry 46:4,5 

51:23 

refer 30:24 

52:25 

respect 14:20,22 

26:9 

23:20 

Respondent 

1:19 2:7 26:16 
responds 22:24 
response 6:8,12 

6:13 25:8 

result 5:3 31:24 

31:25 44:11 

resurrect 10:17 
retried 26:3 
return 44:8 

refuses 20:18 
regardless 35:19  returned 20:20 

54:11 

51:9 

reindicted 26:4 
returns 3:20 
reindicting 26:7  reversal 5:19 
reinforces 5:14 
7:14 16:13 
25:5,7,18 26:1 
30:20 53:12 
reverse 25:3 
reversed 12:15 

rejected 25:6 
relevant 39:16 

39:17 

5:16 

rely 13:13 34:20  review 29:25 
remainder 26:9 
remedial 13:4 

31:15 32:11,22 
32:25 53:9 

reviewed 29:24 

remedy 20:22 

13:17 

44:8 

reminding 

23:22 

rendered 21:5 
require 9:17 

53:9 

51:9 

51:2 

reviews 20:1 

27:11 

revive 17:25 
right 3:14 5:14 

Official 

Page 63 

50:24 

5:17 11:10 
21:9,17 29:11  Russell 40:14,19  seriously 5:6 
39:25 40:2 
43:9 45:14 
48:7,11 

51:7 52:6 

18:11 

set 12:18 31:21 

48:16 
S
S 2:1 3:1 
San 35:25
satisfy 36:18
saving 5:7
saying 9:22

24:15 28:13,14
29:8 37:21
40:5 41:3 47:5 
53:24

says 6:5 15:12 

19:13 25:2
28:1 31:6
36:24 37:24
47:11,12 48:5 
Scalia 7:5,9 22:8 

22:17 26:2,5
31:19 32:1,3,8
47:4,14,23
49:17,23 50:3 
50:11,16 51:21 

scenarios 36:4
screen 53:11
second 8:24

44:10

secondary 46:9
secrecy 20:3
secret 27:8
section 9:5

12:16

see 6:24 7:7 12:9 

12:11 14:9
15:23 17:22
22:12 28:13
30:9 38:16
42:17 53:7
select 32:15
sense 6:2 22:25 

32:9 36:23
sentencing

32:17

separate 37:4
38:2 47:5,6

37:19 48:1 
49:20 50:9,13
51:6 

sets 8:22 
setting 37:9 

47:24 

settled 9:17 
sharpen 31:20 
shoes 35:5 
show 18:14 
24:17 45:8 
showed 41:16 
showing 20:2 
shown 7:4 
sight 40:19 
significant

16:25 

simple 43:1 
simply 5:14 13:8 

19:6 29:18 
30:6,14 32:21 
34:23 42:25 
43:7 44:6 
48:12 53:17,21
54:15 

single 26:20 
38:19 51:10 
sir 30:4 32:7 
36:5 48:17 
49:22 51:15 

sits 16:20,22
situation 6:2,9
11:4 18:12 
19:7,11 29:9 
31:7 46:11 

situations 15:25 

16:6 19:6 
22:23 42:19 

Sixth 3:14 21:24 

25:12 

slight 34:7 
small 11:24 
Solicitor 1:15 

ROBERTS 3:3 

6:1 16:22 
26:11,14 35:22 
44:24 51:13,16 
54:20 

rode 41:16 42:7 

role 16:25 17:10 

room 19:9 27:15 

42:13 

32:19 

31:9 

25:13 

rose 13:9 25:13 

route 6:21 
rule 6:16 7:14 
9:11 12:20 
13:9 16:13 
17:19,21 18:5 
18:7,20,24 
19:13 20:1 
25:1,4,7,15 
26:1 30:22 
31:6 36:19 
37:24 42:19 
52:1,7,11,17 
53:11 54:6,16 
54:17 

34:22 

rules 36:19 52:2 

53:8 54:19 

ruling 7:21 13:4 

13:25 15:17 

required 8:22 
10:19 54:2 

requirement 9:8 
27:18 37:5,6,8 
37:9,22 39:19 
45:22 46:18 
requirements 
26:25 44:16 
48:22 

rightly 32:14 

34:22 

rise 21:16 
risk 12:19 18:25 

19:1 

requires 4:17 
Resendiz 33:16 
Resendiz-Ponce  robbery 24:10 
24:11 27:24 
39:6 49:5 

reserve 19:1,3 

rob 11:17 

1:6 3:5 

reviewing 35:18  ruled 33:15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

statute 8:19 11:4  sub-rules 53:8 
sufficient 4:16 

somebody 5:2 
18:21 27:23 
30:7 

somewhat 21:1 
sorry 30:5 
sort 11:25 24:6 
sounds 25:11 

47:13 

Souter 4:22 5:10 

5:13 17:17 
18:13,17 19:4 
35:12 43:2,10 
43:16,25 44:11 
44:17 52:20,24 
speaking 33:25 
species 18:23 
specific 37:2 
45:21 46:17 

specifically 6:18 

32:16 

specify 36:7,14 
spell 9:23 10:15 
12:24 49:4,6,8 

12:15 36:25 
45:1,6 48:14 
48:25 50:23 
steal 11:15,16 
step 4:10,20 9:4 
9:6,18,24 10:6 
11:21 36:15 
40:5 44:21 
46:12,15 

Stevens 13:21 

14:7 15:3 
41:12,23 42:1 
42:6,11,17 
43:3 44:2,3 

stipulates 30:15 
Stirone 42:24 
string 38:15 
strong 7:22 15:4 
stronger 17:4 
structure 26:19 

51:6 

stuck 16:12 
subject 18:21 
spelling 36:22 
split 12:16 52:8 
27:11 31:15 
stage 20:4 33:4 
40:17 50:8,21 
stake 10:24 25:4  submission 3:15 
stand 29:10 32:5 

14:20 

32:7 

standard 21:23 

27:6 35:19 
start 53:21 
started 39:5 
state 13:14 

submit 13:18 
21:19 23:18 
34:6 52:3 
53:19 

submitted 34:3 

36:2 52:9 
14:14 27:21 
54:21,24 
36:20,23 37:24  submitting 
48:13 52:22 

34:24 

stated 27:19,20 
statement 37:1 

40:10 

states 1:1,3,12 
3:4,11 6:14 
7:24 10:5 13:5 
35:25 36:11,20 
37:15 42:24 
45:2 47:2 
stating 37:8 

substantial 4:10 
4:20 9:4,6,18 
9:24 10:6 
11:21 36:15 
40:5 46:12,15 

substantive 

46:24 47:12 
50:2,5,18,19 
51:22,24 52:4 
53:8 54:6 

Official 

Page 64 

6:11 18:16 
39:6,12 43:4 
45:14 

suggest 20:1 
suggested 38:8 

44:2 

suggesting 

35:23 

supersede 33:8 
superseding 
4:12 15:15 
supervision 

47:17 

supports 6:4 
suppose 20:16 
23:8 27:22,22 
28:4 41:14 
45:12 48:4 

supposed 6:23 

16:24 

Supreme 1:1,12 
sure 3:22 5:13 

18:17 25:9 
36:12 44:3 
49:21,23 52:12 
53:3 

surely 34:24 
surprise 34:11 

surprised 33:6 

34:16 

34:2 

surveillance 

46:3,8 

susceptible 8:10 
system 16:2 
24:19 25:2 
53:14,20 

systems 14:14 

T

T 2:1,1
take 5:5,6 20:10 

21:17 26:23
27:16,18 28:22 
30:7 39:10

taken 20:11 
talk 44:25 
talked 11:7 
talking 16:2 
19:10 33:13 
38:18 40:1 
43:19 

Taylor 25:6 
technical 11:25 

29:18 

tell 23:2 38:17 
40:22 42:12 
46:14 50:16 

tells 48:14 
term 10:13,16 
test 12:18 25:10 

41:13,14,23 

testify 6:17 20:5 
testimony 20:5 
Thank 26:11,13 

51:13,15,20 
54:20,22 
theory 43:6 
thing 22:11 

25:13 27:5,12 
50:20 

things 9:10 36:7 

36:8,11 38:2 
39:23 

think 5:15 9:20 
12:5 14:5,19 
15:5,9,10,14 
15:20,22 16:8 
16:14 18:22 
22:2,17,18,24 
31:16 32:4 
36:6,13 37:6 
37:17 39:15,17 
42:18 47:11 
48:10 49:7 
50:20 53:5 
54:10 

thinking 39:5 
thought 11:7,10 
11:12,23 23:4 
37:18 38:2 
43:20 44:1 

48:12 

thousands 12:17 
threat 39:10 
three 51:17 
throw 53:21 
thrown 17:24 
time 5:16 6:10 
6:17 26:10,23 
34:4 39:22 
46:3 48:6 
49:12 

times 38:9,24 
today 38:18 
toes 4:24 
told 27:17,23 

33:13 

touches 8:3 
track 23:21 
transaction 15:6 
transcript 19:24 

28:20 30:9 
transcripts 

19:21 

treated 32:18 
43:1 47:10 
treatises 39:3 
treatment 29:5 

47:9 

tremendous 

52:19,25 53:1 
trial 3:15,23 4:6 
4:6,25 5:2,11 
5:12,21 7:6,11 
7:13 15:11,19 
16:5 17:22,23 
18:6,21 19:12 
19:14 20:4,10 
20:11,18 21:18 
23:11 24:10 
25:23 27:2,11 
28:5 30:22 
32:1,25 33:12 
34:2,4,7,11
38:10,11 41:1 
43:23 49:12 
52:2 53:2,16
tried 21:9,17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

30:14,15 39:3 
47:15 49:4 
trouble 17:17 
troubles 8:4 
true 17:15 25:5 

29:17 48:15 
53:7 

try 36:11 
trying 12:9 

23:22 42:18 
Tuesday 1:9 
turned 20:5 
turns 27:25 
two 6:16 13:5 

19:5,6,7 22:23 
25:14 34:3,13 
38:2 41:24 
42:19 

two-count 47:20 
tying 35:5 
type 25:13 
typically 5:10 

U 

uncertainty 

18:20 

underlying 13:3 

13:6,19 

understand 8:21 
9:11 43:6 44:4 
47:4 

understanding 

37:10 50:6 
unfair 21:24 

25:10 38:11,11 
38:12 

unhappy 32:23 

32:23 

uniform 52:11 
United 1:1,3,12 

3:4,11 6:14 
7:24 10:5 13:5 
35:25 36:11 
37:15 42:24 
45:2 47:2 

unknown 38:22 
unlawful 45:13 

45:18 46:10 
47:9 

unusual 13:2 
use 9:19 10:13 
10:16 11:8,20 
11:20 27:5 

uses 8:19 
usually 13:23 
U.S 7:16 11:13 

V 

v 1:5 
vague 37:22 
valid 13:7 
validly 24:16 
value 25:18 
values 20:3 25:4 
variance 41:17 
41:20,25 42:1 
42:3,4,5,15,23 
43:1,6,8,15,18 
variations 9:19 
various 38:9 

53:10 

vast 24:16 
verdict 3:20 
4:18 14:22 
19:16 20:20 
21:4 22:21 
29:10 53:19 
versus 3:4,11 
6:14 13:5,10 
25:6 32:16 
37:15 42:24 
victims 53:14 
view 22:25 

35:17 

violated 13:15 
violates 3:14,17 
violation 6:16 
10:20 11:19 
16:16 24:8 
52:4 

W 
wait 17:22 
Waiting 5:11 
walked 36:10 

Official 

Page 65 

39:9 41:15 
42:13 

walking 36:14 

36:16 42:7 

walks 9:9 
want 4:25 7:15 

15:9,12 

Washington 1:8 

1:16 32:17 

wasn't 7:23 9:13 

36:14 47:22 

waved 48:7 
way 5:3 7:23 

12:15 18:8,12 
22:3 32:18 
40:10,12 44:22 
46:25 47:19 
48:15 52:13 

well-settled 8:20 
well-0establis... 

10:14 

went 10:10,11 
20:13 40:10 
44:7,12 

we'll 3:3 18:18 
we're 6:5,23 7:1 

12:18 16:2 
19:10 52:11 
54:14 

We've 13:21 
whatsoever 28:3 

28:16 32:22 

win 12:7 28:9,10 
wit 10:7 
witnesses 6:16 

19:8 20:5 
53:14 

wonder 8:4 
word 8:20 11:14 

11:20 12:23 
27:25 28:1 
48:20,21,22,25 
49:16 

words 6:8 11:8 

11:20 27:2 
41:14 44:18 
49:8 

31 52:1,7 
36 30:22 31:6 

5 

51 2:10 

7 

7(c)(1) 36:19 
70 16:3 

8 

80,000 16:3 

work 23:12 
works 3:23 
worried 12:11 
worse 28:15 
wouldn't 23:4 

40:3 45:15 
46:12,14,16 
51:25 

writing 48:13 
written 11:1 
wrong 5:2 12:1 
37:11 41:14 
44:7,12,14 
54:7,18,19 

wrongly 15:17 
32:14 34:22 

X 

x 1:2,7 

Y 

Yeah 28:11,25 
40:18,18,18 

year 16:3 
Z 

zero 29:2,3 

0 
05-998 1:5 
1 

10 1:9 
10:04 1:13 3:2 
11:01 54:23 
1326 9:5 12:17 

38:7 49:25 
50:23 
14 39:7 
1960s 42:24 

2 
2004 39:7 
2006 1:9 
26 2:7 

3 

3 2:4 

Alderson Reporting Company 

