Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
DEONDERY CHAMBERS, 
:
              
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 06-11206 
                       
UNITED STATES. 
: 
                  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, November 10, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:03 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
ROBERT N. HOCHMAN, ESQ., Chicago, Ill.; on behalf of

 the Petitioner. 

MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor

 General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
 behalf of the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
ROBERT N. HOCHMAN, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

20


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

ROBERT N. HOCHMAN, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

43


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:03 a.m.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument 
first this morning in Case 06-11206, Chambers v. United 
States.

 Mr. Hochman.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT N. HOCHMAN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. HOCHMAN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 Failure to report is not a violent felony 

under the Armed Career Criminal Act because it presents 
neither a serious potential risk of injury to others nor 
involves violent and aggressive conduct.

 The Government argues that failure to report 

satisfies both the risk of injury and violent, 
-aggressive conduct standards for the same reason:  The 
prospect that a offender will violently resist an arrest 
-- resist arrest upon completion of the offense or upon 
-- for having done the offense.  That potential and that 
potential risk alone is neither as a matter of fact nor 
law sufficient to satisfy either the risk of injury or 
the violent, aggressive conduct standard.

 Beginning with the risk of injury:  The 

statute refers to a serious potential risk of injury, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and by using the word "serious" Congress indicated not 
just any felony, not just any felony which carries 
necessarily some risk of injury would be included.  The 
risk that must be generated must be one that's somehow 
greater than, something that warrants singly out this 
sort of offender as the sort of person who's deserving 
of greater punishment for his recidivism.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I take it you 
concede that a breakout as opposed to a failure to 
report would be covered by the statute?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  Yes, Your Honor, I think it 

would.  I think that in fact one of the critical errors 
that the courts of appeals have made and that the 
Government made here is equating breakout, prison 
escape, with failure to report.  They are entirely 
different.  They are importantly different, both again 
as a matter of analytically the categorical rule and 
what would you look at to determine whether this sort of 
person satisfied the violent and aggressive standard. 
And we now know, in light of the Sentencing Commission's 
report that was filed just last -- that was filed with 
the Court just last week, that the risk of injury 
associated with a prison breakout escape and failure to 
report is dramatically different.  And that mistake --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But suppose it were shown 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

-- this is hypothetical.  Suppose it were shown that 90 
percent of all escapes under the escape statute were 
breakouts involving weapons; 10 percent were failure to 
report.  Would that affect how we decide the case?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  This case?
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Yes.
 MR. HOCHMAN:  Well, since -- I think since 

this is not a prison breakout case, I don't know whether 
data about breakouts --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do we look to the crime to 

see generally whether or not it involves violence and 
serious risk of harm?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I think you -- I think the 

categorical rule does require you to look at --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  So that, in my 

hypothetical, it would be a more difficult case than the 
case we have here or would it be the same?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I think in your hypothetical, 

where a prison breakout-- where a prison breakout is 
involved --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No.  My hypothetical is, 
under the statute, if you look at the whole universe of 
prosecutions under the escape statute, 90 percent of 
them are for breakouts involving weapons.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I don't think that you look to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the universe under the escape statute.  You can under 
Shepard --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But that's what we looked 

to in Begay.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  But the issue under Shepard 

and the approach under the categorical rule requires you 
-- allows you to look at a narrower subsection of the 
statute if the charging document and other reliable 
indicia indicate that.  And in this case, it's 
undisputed that Mr. Chambers was convicted only of 
failing to report.  He was not convicted of the more 
serious offense of prison breakout.  And in fact in 
Illinois they are punished at different levels, and the 
evidence is absolutely clear --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Maybe -- I don't 

want to put words in his mouth, but I thought what 
Justice Kennedy was asking is what if you have a statute 
that is just escape or whatever and doesn't break it 
down like that?  At that point would we look to see what 
the crime of escape was typically like, most of them 
were breakout or most of them were the other thing?  You 
have, I gather, two separate provisions, but what if you 
don't?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  Yes.  And that -- that is a 

difficult question under the categorical rule.  I think 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that the first step would be to determine whether there 
is anything in the record.  Under Shepard, you can look 
to other indications of whether the conduct at issue 
that was found by the jury or that was pled to, either 
from an indictment or from plea colloquy, whether there 
is some more specific indication.  If not, I think then 
what you would look at -- and I think here you would 
look at, to the extent you're looking at the risk -- on 
the risk of injury side, you would look at the best 
available information.  If that -- if that gives you a 
run of cases where you say typically --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry.  If 

that's the case, I'm looking at 720 Illinois Statutes 
5/31-6.  It's reproduced a page 2a of the Government's 
brief.  And they don't -- it doesn't seem to be a 
separate provision, whether it's a breakout or a failure 
to report.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  But here the charging document 

was clear, and under Shepard the charging document is 
something you're also allowed to take into 
consideration.  And there is no doubt, under the 
charging document, that he was convicted of merely 
failing to report.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What was the sentence for 

that? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HOCHMAN:  It -- the sentence appears 

that they extended his probation.  He had to serve the 
four weekends that he had failed -- for which he had 
failed to report, and his probation was extended.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But he didn't get any 

extra jail time?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  He did not get any additional 

jail time as far as I can tell from the record, Your 
Honor.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  There is really a problem 

about -- about what you suggest.  It may destroy the 
whole benefit of the categorical approach.  I mean, you 
can always shave something down to become a narrower 
crime.  An escape statute, for example, I suppose you 
could look to see whether the particular escape in 
question from the charging document was an escape that 
used firearms or was an escape that, you know, that 
injured or killed guards.  And, you know, that gets us 
into the case-by-case examination that it is the whole 
purpose of the categorical approach to avoid.  Now, how 
do we -- how do we avoid getting to the bottom of that 
slippery slope?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I think this -- I think this 

Court took that step in Shepard, and it did it in a very 
narrow and circumscribed way.  It did it by saying the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

only things you're allowed to consider are things that 
are as reliable as the charge itself and the elements 
essential to --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.  I mean, the charge 
mentions -- mentions a firearm.  Anything that's in the 
charge can be used to narrow the crime that we are 
looking at.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  If the jury instructions were 
clear, if it's clear that the jury had to find that the 
presence of a firearm -- and I think it complicates --
that is, I think some courts refer to it as the modified 
categorical rule.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  It has to be an element of 

the crime.  If using a firearm is not an element of 
escape, then I don't have to worry about it.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  If -- if -- correct.  If it's 
not an element in the sense that he either pled to it or 
the jury necessarily found it as a necessary matter. 
And that's really what Shepard says.  It has to be 
something that we necessarily know occurred from the 
fact of conviction, and --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay, but it doesn't have 
to be an element.  So, if all the evidence in the case 
was that, you know, he wrestled a gun from the guard and 
made his way out of the prison that way, if the jury 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

found him guilty, that was the only basis on which it 
could have found him guilty, that would be enough.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I don't think that Shepard 

permits you to look into trial transcripts of evidence 
that was presented.  It just says:  What did the jury 
necessarily find?  And what I mean by "jury 
instructions," how was the jury instructed?  What did it 
have to find?  What did the jury have to find in order 
to convict?

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, that sounds like an 

element.  That sounds like an element.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I think it is elements, but if 

you look --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Well --
MR. HOCHMAN:  Please, continue.
 JUSTICE ALITO:  If you look at the cases 

that we've had to decide under this statute in the last 
couple of years, do you think they illustrate that the 
categorical approach just doesn't work in this 
situation?  Because it puts us in a position for every 
single crime that comes up here of making -- of trying 
to ascertain what is the serious risk when we don't have 
any empirical -- we don't have a number quantifying what 
a serious risk is, nor can we generally find what the 
risk is that's associated with a particular class of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

cases.

 Maybe when Congress enacted this they never 

anticipated that it would be done on a categorical 
basis.  Why not just have a determination as to whether 
there was a serious potential risk in this particular 
case?  So, if you have a -- a nonviolent person who 
walks away, that's one thing.  If you have somebody who 
has a long list of convictions for violent -- violent 
crimes and escapes, that's another situation.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I think there are two problems 

with that approach, Your Honor:  First, as the Court 
said in Shepard, the categorical rule, which was adopted 
way back when the Court first confronted the statute and 
has been consistently applied ever since, more or less 
anticipated the Sixth Amendment Apprendi concerns that 
might come from digging in and trying to attribute 
conduct which has not been found by a jury, which 
doesn't have that level of reliability, whether it's an 
element or was on a special verdict form or some -- or 
some other -- or was admitted to in a plea colloquy.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Isn't that a separate 

question?  If it had -- if it has to be found by a jury, 
it can be submitted to the jury?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  Well, if it was submitted to 

the jury, then I think under Shepard it's something that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

could be considered, and that would be part of what's 
referred to as the modified categorical approach.  I 
think the problems with the categorical approach that 
you're identifying, courts have tried and Shepard itself 
in effect amended enough to provide some kind of 
flexibility.

 The other reason to hold back on such a sea 
change is this is, after all, a statutory case and the 
categorical rule has been this Court's approach from the 
beginning.  Congress could easily revise the statute. 
If after 20 years it hasn't --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, it could, and if it 

had read these cases and it was paying attention to this 
problem, you would think it would go through a list of 
crimes and say, these fall within it and these don't 
fall within it.  But obviously it hasn't done that.
 MR. HOCHMAN:  I think that would make 

everybody's job, the bar and this Court, much easier.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, it might not, if it 

just said "escape," and then you'd have this same 
problem.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  That might be the case, 

although if it just said "escape," I think I'd actually 
have a substantially harder case than what we have here, 
because what we have here doesn't resemble the kind of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

violent, aggressive conduct that this Court in Begay 
said is going to be the standard and exemplar of the 
sort of conduct that Congress was thinking about.  It 
added -- this Court in Begay said that the serious 
potential risk of injury is just one part of the 
inquiry, that Congress was also singling out crimes 
commit ted in a certain way, and if that, if that 
requirement is going to have any bite, if it's going to 
do the job of singling out and separating out cases, it 
has to be something beyond the mere routine, 
ever-present prospect that an offender might resist 
arrest for having committed the offense after police 
discover that he has done so.

 And in fact if you step back for a moment 

and just visualize --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Surely it depends upon how, 

how, what should I say, how often that prospect is 
realized.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  There is no doubt.  There is 

no doubt that the prospect --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, the statute itself 
lists robbery and robbery very often doesn't involve any 
threat of injury, but all and all we think it does. 
Obviously, Congress thought it did, right?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  Well in the -- I actually 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

think robbery would satisfy under the first clause 
because it has as an element the use, attempted use, or 
threatened use of physical force against another.  But I 
think the concern that escape is much more easily 
detected than other crimes is obviously true.  And so 
the prospect that the offender will be arrested is 
obviously greater than in other, in other crimes.

 But the point is the standards, the standard 
imposed by Begay and the notion that the conduct must be 
violent and aggressive, if you step back and visualize 
what it is about burglary, arson, extortion or the use 
of explosives that can properly be characterized as 
violent and aggressive, surely it is not the prospect 
that an offender will have been found out for having 
committed those offenses, police will be dispatched to 
arrest them, and then the offender upon that 
confrontation will violently resist arrest.  It's 
just -- it's not, it's not what those enumerated 
offenses are doing in the statute.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I didn't mean to say 

robbery.  I meant to say burglary.  Why is burglary 
violent or aggressive?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I think the reason is because 

--

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, burglary by its 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

you do it at night.  You don't want to be 
nature is--
detected.  It's not violent or aggressive at all.  It's 
sneaky, is what it is.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I assume that --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Robbery is violent or 

aggressive.  You're quite right about that.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  When you say burglary, if 

you're at home, if you're at home it's going to get 
violent and aggressive.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes, but -- that may be, 

but it does not in its nature indicate violence or 
aggressiveness.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I think, Justice Souter, has 
it exactly right.  I think the reason why the Court in 
Begay and Taylor, by the way, singled out burglary as 
having some kind of inherent danger and potential for 
violent and aggressive conduct associated with it is 
because it involves an act of invading the space of 
another, and cultural expectations and even common law 
expectations about how others might respond suggest that 
that scenario that you have willingly created, knowing 
full well that another might respond violently to what 
you've done in the event you've been detected --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  It gets you right back into 
the soup.  What you're saying is all it requires is that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there be a potential for violence, for aggressiveness, 
right?  And that's what the Government says here:  There 
is a potential for violence and aggressiveness.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  What it -- what it requires is 

the conscious creation of circumstances that you have 
good reason to believe is going to ignite in violence. 
And if we learned anything from the data that's been 
submitted to the Court both by the Sentencing Commission 
and by the Government, it's that there is very little 
reason to believe that even the distant arrest scenario 
for those who fail to report doesn't carry with it very 
much of a risk of injury at all.  In fact, in all the 
materials that have been submitted to this Court, there 
is not a single cited instance or case of an innocent 
bystander or a police officer who has been injured in 
connection with a confrontation from arrest for failure 
to report.  There are none.

 Now to be sure, there are some instances of 

violent confrontation and I'm not here saying it's 
impossible that there would be injury associated with an 
arrest scenario.  The point is it's nothing different. 
There is nothing in the record that would give us any 
reason to believe this is the kind of special violent 
conduct that Congress was singling out for special 
treatment.  I should also add that excluding failure to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

report from the statute isn't going to create any kind 
of crack through which the sort of people the Government 
appears to be concerned about might fall through.  And 
the reason it this.  The several anecdotal cases they 
cite in their brief and a couple of the cases that 
Massachusetts reported back to them which had involved 
some kind of violent resisting arrest, those individuals 
were charged, separately charged for assault and battery 
and similar crimes on a police officer.  It's 
unsurprising that when that happens, those individuals 
will be separately charged and convicted for their 
violent conduct.

 So the only work that is done by sweeping 
away the categorical rule, doing serious damage to the 
categorical rule, undermining Begay, the only work 
that's done is to encompass people who we have reason to 
believe didn't engage in violent conduct.  That seems to 
me a strange way to interpret the statute, certainly not 
the sort of things this Court would want to close its 
eyes to.

 The last thing, Your Honors.  It's important 
to preserve the distinction in Begay between the violent 
and aggressive standard on the one hand and the risk of 
injury on the other hand, and Government's approach 
collapses it.  The Government says, why is this violent 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and aggressive?  Because in their view we can --
falsely, as we've discussed, but because in their view 
there is a sufficient risk of injury on arrest.  If 
that's going to be the case, if you're going to be able 
to show conduct is violent and aggressive simply because 
there is a sufficient risk of injury associated with it, 
the violent and aggressive conduct standard does 
nothing.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That doesn't square with 

the answer you gave me with regard to burglary.  If what 
you just said is true, burglary wouldn't be among the 
listed crimes.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  No.  The distinction I'm 
drawing here is the act that you take of invading 
somebody else's space and the prospect -- what you're 
doing is you're consciously taking an act fully aware 
that violence might ensue, which suggests that you are 
the sort of person who is comfortable in a violent 
situation or at least dangerously comfortable in such a 
violent situation, regardless of how frequently that --
that circumstance actually is realized.  You're the sort 
of person who has taken an action that expresses comfort 
with that sort of situation.

 Failing to report --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So invading 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

someone's space, so trespass would be covered by this 
statute?  You're invading someone's space.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  If it's -- if it's felonious, 
trespass might be.  You're invading someone's space in 
the circumstance where the response is -- I think there 
is a decent argument for trespass if for no other reason 
than the act itself, on the violence and aggressive 
standard side, the act itself is more or less the same 
as burglary.  It's not as if you can immediately tell 
from observing the burglar enter the structure that he 
has the intent, the requisite intent to commit another 
crime.

 But the other reason why I doubt that 
trespass might be -- might satisfy the standard is 
because there may not -- there doesn't appear to be a 
serious potential risk of injury.  The second -- the 
other requirement may not be satisfied.  I just don't 
have any information about that.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Your argument is that the 

failing to report is not violent and aggressive and 
therefore, no matter what degree of risk the statistics 
might show, it would not qualify?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  I'm making both arguments, 

Your Honor.  But yes, that is one, that is one of them.

 If there are no further questions, I'll 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

reserve the remainder of my time.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Roberts.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. ROBERTS:  Mr. Chief Justice and may it 

please the Court:

 Failure-to-report escape qualifies as a 

violent felony under the ACCA's residual clause because 
it creates a serious potential risk of physical injury 
that's comparable in both kind and degree to the risk 
that's created by the enumerated offense of burglary. 
Failure-to-report escape is similar in kind to burglary 
because it's purposeful, violent, and aggressive in the 
same way as burglary.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Roberts, wouldn't 
that be so of any crime?  This is failure to report. 
Any crime, any -- an arrest for any crime has a certain 
risk that the arrestee is going to resist.  Is there 
anything different, is anything greater, about this 
arrest for this kind of crime?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Yes, Your Honor.  Two points 
on that.  First, escape and failure-to-report escape, 
other types of escape and recapture, are linked ed in a 
way that arrest and the typical crime aren't, because 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

escape inherently avoids -- inherently involves the 
avoidance of custody and custody is the very obligation 
that recapture is trying to impose.  But avoiding arrest 
isn't an element of the typical crime, so the connection 
between arrest and the ordinary crime isn't close enough 
to justify considering the violence in arrest -- in the 
arrest in whether the crime is violent.  Also the risk 
--

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Say that again.  I didn't 

understand it.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Okay.  What I'm saying is it's 

an element of escape that you're avoiding custody, and 
escape is a continuing offense and so it doesn't end 
until the avoidance of custody is over.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  What's that got to do with 
increasing the risk of violence?  I mean, I see -- I see 
your kind of elements argument, but it seems to be 
beside the point that --

MR. ROBERTS:  It shows the close connection 

between the two.  And so when you're -- when the 
offender is committing the crime, it's appropriate to 
hold him accountable for what he can see is so highly, 
closely connected to the crime and which, in fact, has 
to happen in order to end the crime; whereas --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes, but the crime is still 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

-- the crime that we are concerned with here is still 
essentially a passive crime.  He just doesn't show up.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  And given, you know, the 
close logical connections, I don't see that the close 
logical connections convert the passive crime into a 
higher degree of resisting arrest from any other.  In 
fact, it suggests just the opposite.

 MR. ROBERTS:  To address the -- the passive 

point, deliberately failing to comply with your legal 
duty to report to prison is not -- it is not doing 
nothing, as Petitioner says.  It's not purely passive. 
It is a criminal act.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, you know, you may 
precisely be doing nothing.  If I say, you know, it's 
Monday morning at 9 o'clock, I'm supposed to -- to 
report to prison, and I'm going to stay home, my purpose 
is to stay put in my armchair.  That's purposeful 
conduct and it's about as passive as you can get.

 MR. ROBERTS:  It's purposefully inviting the 
violent confrontation when the law enforcement officers 
come to terminate --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You can say the same thing 

about failure to respond to a traffic ticket.

 MR. ROBERTS:  No.  Because in -- in failure 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to respond to the traffic ticket the -- first of all, 
it's not clear that somebody is going to come after you 
and try to physically bring you in.

 Second of all, the offender isn't expecting 

them and on edge and prone to react violently.

 Third, he hasn't demonstrated already that 

he is unwilling to submit to custody.  And the fact that 
--

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The offender is 
prone to react violently if he doesn't respond to a 
traffic ticket?

 MR. ROBERTS:  No.  I'm saying just the 
opposite of that.  I'm saying that it's different 
because here you've got somebody who is expecting the 
police to come.  He is looking over his shoulder all the 
time.  He knows they know he didn't come to prison.  He 
knows they know who he is.  They probably know where he 
is.  If he is sitting at home, they know where he is.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What is your 

understanding of the Illinois statute?  It is, I take 
it, only triggered by failure to report for confinement?

 MR. ROBERTS:  This --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What about like, you 

know, you've got to see your probation officer every --

MR. ROBERTS:  This offense that he was 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

convicted of is failure to report to a penal 
institution, failure to report to prison.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And you concede the 

probation or parole situation?

 MR. ROBERTS:  I think a probation violation 

is different -- different circumstances.  It doesn't 
involve the same refusal to submit to custody that this 
offense involves, which --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So we need not so 

many -- not so much statistics about how many times 
violence results, but statistics about how serious the 
police are about picking somebody up?

 MR. ROBERTS:  I don't think you really need 

the statistics, Your Honor.  I think it's a common --
it's common sense that the police are going to make 
vigorous efforts to recapture people who fail to show up 
to prison the way they are supposed to.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But it's not common sense 

that the person who has been guilty of a crime so 
gentlemanly that they only made him report to prison on 
the weekends would confront the policeman with violence 
when he comes.  This is not normally what you think of 
as a violent type who has -- who has been told to report 
weekends to the prison.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well --

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  But did he get additional 
time, by the way, when -- when they finally brought him 
back?

 MR. ROBERTS:  When he was sentenced -- when 

he was convicted of escape, he was sentenced to six 
months in prison -- in jail, that was stayed; probation 
for 30 months, and he violated his probation and he 
ended up in jail for 5 years.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  So he just -- he just had 

to make up the weekends that he had lost?

 MR. ROBERTS:  No.  He didn't just have to 

make up the weekends that he had lost.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  That's what Mr. Hochman 

told us --

question.

MR. ROBERTS:  I know that, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- when I asked that 

 MR. ROBERTS:  But I don't think that's 

accurate for the sentence for escape.  On page 113 to 
114 of this JA, Your Honor, which is the -- the PSR 
describing what happened for this offense, it says that 
he has 30 months probation.  It's in the second volume, 
the volume under seal.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, this guy doesn't 

sound to me like Jack the Ripper.  He really doesn't. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. ROBERTS:  You know, we are not supposed 
to be looking at the individual offender here.  It's the 
categorical approach.  But he had been convicted of 
robbery and aggravated battery, Your Honor.  So he -- he 
is not somebody who has not done any violent crimes, 
either.  And what's -- what's different is that he has 
now deliberately failed to comply with his legal duty to 
report.  He has now deliberately resisted custody, so --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But would the statute 

apply if -- say he is supposed to go in on the weekends. 
Instead, he goes out on a binge, and then he voluntarily 
comes in on a Monday morning saying, yes, I failed to 
report, and so here I am.

 MR. ROBERTS:  First of all, while he is out 
on the binge, people could be coming and looking for him 
and the violent confrontation could occur. 
Second of all, even if in the unusual case of somebody 
who comes in voluntarily hours late, a few days late, 
there wasn't a -- a risk of -- of violence, which we 
think there can be, but even if there was none, it 
wouldn't matter because you're applying the categorical 
approach here.  And what you don't look at -- you don't 
look at the unusual case.  You look at the elements of 
the offense in the ordinary case.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Can you -- can you tell 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

me:  The U.S. attorney has this case.  The man failed to 
report for custody some -- a few years earlier, and you 
have this offense.  Does the district attorney or --
pardon me -- the United States attorney have some 
discretion here that he may not prosecute at all?  What 
-- what goes into the --

MR. ROBERTS:  I think generally the policy 

--

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  What goes through the mind 

of -- of a prosecutor?  He says, because this fellow 
failed to report earlier for this offense, I'm going to 
give him 15 extra years in jail.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, Your Honor, he is -- he 

is looking at his whole --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  What -- what does a -- are 
there many instances where you think in a case like this 
a U.S. attorney would just elect not to file that 
charge?

 MR. ROBERTS:  I --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Or do you think they 

automatically file it every time; and if not, how do 
they define it?

 MR. ROBERTS:  I think generally that -- that 
they look at the conduct that's been committed and they 
-- that the policy is to charge the -- the maximum 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

charges that are supported by what the -- what the 
defendant has done.  But here you don't have --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do they ever look at the 

-- do they ever look at the attorney?  This attorney has 
been giving us a hard time, and we ought to show him 
that we really mean business?  Do they look at the 
nature of the -- the identity of the counsel of the 
defendant?  Do they ever look at that?

 MR. ROBERTS:  I'm -- I'm not aware of that. 

I can't -- can't speak to the -- the fact that they 
would do that, Your Honor.  But here you've got in the 
ACCA, you're got not one previous violation for escape; 
you've got three violent felonies that you have to have. 
And this was his third one with -- in addition to 
robbery and aggravated battery and in addition to 
distributing cocaine within a thousand feet of public 
housing.  And so we are not talking about --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I understood your 
friend -- excuse me.  I understood your friend to say 
that you don't have a single example of failure to 
report leading to a violent confrontation.

 MR. ROBERTS:  That's -- that's also 

incorrect, Your Honor.  Two of the four cases that we 
cited in our -- in our brief, in our anecdotes, involved 
injury to innocent bystanders.  It's true we didn't 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

highlight that in the parentheticals to those cases, but 
it's on page 19, the -- we cite various cases, and we 
also then go on to cite some articles just as an 
example.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So you have -- so 

you have two examples.

 MR. ROBERTS:  We have those two examples.  I 

mean, I haven't gone out and looked for other cases. 
Those are just two out of the four that we cited.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You haven't gone out 
and looked for other -- I'm sorry.  You haven't gone out 
and looked for other cases?  I thought you --

MR. ROBERTS:  In -- in addition to those, 
no.  I -- I went to get some sample cases.  I haven't 
gone to see if I could find more cases of those.  In 
addition, in the Massachusetts data there are -- there 
are two of the 18.  Admittedly, the sample is small in 
Massachusetts --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Roberts --
MR. ROBERTS:  But it's 11 percent of the 
people violently resisted, and they were charged with 
assault and battery on a police officer.  I think that 
that's indicative of possible injury.  And in any case 
the question is --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Roberts, have you had 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

occasion to look at the -- the recent figures compiled 
by the Sentencing Commission?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Yes, Your Honor.  And I think 

that the Sentencing Commission data also supports --
although, again, the -- the sample size is small.  But 
the question here is:  Is there a potential risk?  And 
what the sentencing data shows for the failure-to-report 
escapees is that 7.1 --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Is the magnitude of the 
risk relevant?  Suppose it happens one out of 10,000 
times or 99 out of 100 times.  Are they different cases?
 MR. ROBERTS:  We don't think that you should 

be looking at the statistics at -- at all, Your Honor. 
But -- and so -- I mean, you know, that's our -- our 
fundamental point is that -- that the ACCA requires a 
potential risk.  The James case illustrates that you 
decide these cases without statistics.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But the potential risk is 
based on an empirical assessment.  What's -- how can we 
make an empirical assessment without statistics?

 MR. ROBERTS:  What James says is that you 
try to assess whether the degree of risk is comparable 
to the degree of risk presented by one of the enumerated 
offenses.  And, as you did in James --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But isn't that's based on 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

our experience because we have these cases; we've been 
lawyers; we know what they usually involve.  We have 
some sort of a --

MR. ROBERTS:  Yes.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- an instinct or a basis 

for making a judgment.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Yes.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  If statistics can inform 

that, why ignore the statistics?

 MR. ROBERTS:  I'm not saying that you should 

ignore the statistics, but the statistics are neither 
necessary nor dispositive.  And I don't think the 
statistics cast any doubt on the commonsense conclusion 
based on some of the factors I was talking about before, 
about why there's a potential for violence during --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  But your argument goes 
simply to whether there is potential and the statute 
says "serious potential."  Which gets us, it seems to 
me, to the point that Justice Kennedy is making, and 
that is, we've got to have something more than an 
instinctive belief that something bad might happen.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, I think James addresses 

that, Your Honor.  And James says that in deciding 
whether you have a serious potential, you look to the 
enumerated offenses and you determine if they can be 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

comparable.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  They were taking as 

examples cases in which there was serious potential. 
But in any event, you can't lose sight of the modifier. 
It has got to be more than a so-called "potential risk."

 MR. ROBERTS:  It has -- it has to be more 
than a potential.  It has to be serious in the sense 
that it's similar in degree, comparable in degree, to 
one of the enumerated offenses.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What one are we to do 

with -- Justice Stevens -- I think you should address 
the statistics in the sentencing report.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Okay.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  As I read them, they put 
together -- if you put together failing to report and 
failing to return, you get 160 cases in their sample. 
And the number of those cases, whether you looked at the 
time when he had left or whether you looked at the time 
he was apprehended, in which force was involved is zero. 
The number of cases in which injury was involved is 
zero.  The number of cases where he had a dangerous 
weapon is five.

 MR. ROBERTS:  That's right.  And --
JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  So now there we 

are. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. ROBERTS:  It's a 3.1 percent -- 3.1 

percent rate of having this dangerous weapon when he is 
being -- being taken into custody for -- for this 
offense.  And, you know, looking at the -- at the 
failure-to-report people, which is what this person is 
charged of, of those 42 people, that was 7.1 percent of 
those people that had a weapon.  And if one of those 
people had used that weapon, that would have been a 2.4 
percent chance of injury.

 Now, I'm saying the sample size is small, 

and this shows why it's dangerous to put too much weight 
on it.  But that would have been a 2.4 percent rate of 
injury.  And in Tennessee v. Garner, this Court cited a 
statistic in the 1970s about the risk of violence during 
burglary.  And this was household burglary, which you 
think might be likely --

JUSTICE BREYER:  You had every opportunity, 
when we have 160 cases out of the universe -- I guess I 
don't know what the universe is, but sampling proceeds 
through a small amount of cases.  And you could, of 
course, criticize the Sentencing Commission effort if 
you have the statistician or someone who will tell us 
that that sampling was not an appropriate method to 
proceed.  Is there any such person?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, no, Your Honor.  And I'm 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

not criticizing it.  I'm saying that you have to take 
into account the sample size and you have to take into 
account that there are --

JUSTICE BREYER:  No.  Why -- that was my 

question.  Why take into account the sample size in the 
absence of a statistician who would tell us that the 
sample size is too small to reach the conclusion that 
the commission reaches?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Because my point is that --

take the 42 failure-to-report people, which is the 
offense here, okay.  Three of them -- three of those 42, 
had guns.  If one of those three had used the gun, that 
would have been a use of force, an instance of actual 
violence.

 That percentage -- I'm not -- I'm not 

questioning the statistical validity of anything.  I'm 
taking it on its terms.  That's a 2.4 percent statistic 
there.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But they didn't use a gun.
 MR. ROBERTS:  3.8 percent in -- in household 

burglary.  So I just think that -- that the statistics 
are -- are very low, the risk of actual violence in 
burglary as well.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry, counsel. 

One of my colleagues was trying to ask a question. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  The problem is you say if 

he had used a gun.  And he didn't use a gun.  I mean, to 
come up with your statistics on the basis of something 
that didn't happen is not using statistics; it's using 
imagination.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, Your Honor, the statute 
again talks about the potential risk.  It doesn't talk 
about the actual use of force or the actual injury.  The 
actual use of force is covered by clause one --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Do you think those 

statistics show a greater danger than the dangers from 
drunk driving that were involved in Begay?

 MR. ROBERTS:  No.  But I think the drunk 
driving -- that what concerned the Court about drunk 
driving was that the crime is a strict liability crime. 
It didn't involve deliberate conduct.  This conduct is 
purposeful.  Petitioner doesn't -- doesn't contest that. 
And the situation here is a different kind of risk. 
It's like the risk in burglary.  It's the deliberate 
commission of the crime despite the clear risk of an 
ensuing violent confrontation.

 And so, the parallel, there really isn't a 
parallel to the strict liability crime there, where the 
injury -- the Court said in Begay there is a serious 
risk of injury.  The problem is that the crime is just 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

not purposeful, so it doesn't show this willingness to 
harm others.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, of course, that's 

the point.  Begay talked about purposeful violent 
conduct, not just purposeful conduct.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Yes, Your Honor.  But you have 

to -- you have to talk about the violent conduct in 
context.  And what it said is that all these enumerated 
crimes are violent crimes.  But burglary is violent not 
because the violence is some element of the offense. 
There is nothing about the elements of the offense 
that's violent.  What makes burglary violent is the fact 
that the offender deliberately commits it, even though 
he knows it could trigger this violent confrontation.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The distinction between 

this crime and crimes in general is that this person has 
shown that he or she doesn't want to go back into 
custody, is that --

MR. ROBERTS:  I think it's -- it's numerous 

things, but the avoidance of custody is sort of a 
categorical difference between this and all the other 
crimes, Your Honor.  It's an element of this crime that 
he is doing that.

 That also factors into the fact that the 

risk of violence during recapture is going to be greater 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

than the risk of violence in apprehending an ordinary 
criminal for several different related reasons.  One --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  There is -- there was, 
this case comes to us from the Seventh Circuit, right?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Yes.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And am I correct in 
understanding that since this case was decided, the 
Seventh Circuit has changed its position and has gone 
the other way?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Yes.  The Seventh Circuit 

thought that applying the purposeful, violent and 
aggressive requirement of Begay required a different 
result because it -- it thought that it meant that the 
crime had to involve violent conduct itself; and it 
didn't appreciate the point I was making before, that 
burglary doesn't involve that violent conduct itself, 
and that burglary is violent because of the prospect of 
the violent confrontation.

 And so, that's the -- that's what led the 
Seventh Circuit astray the second time around.  But it 
--

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The first time around, 

didn't one of the judges suggest that there ought to be 
a study comparing the frequency of violence in escapes 
from custody to the frequency of violence in failure to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

report, and isn't that what we now have from the 
Sentencing Commission?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Yes.  They did ask for -- for 

statistics.  But I would stress again why we think 
that -- that looking to statistics as some kind of a 
requirement is, you know, both perilous and not required 
by the statute:  One, because the statute requires just 
potential risk, not actual injury.

 Two, because these data are just generally 
not going to be available.  And you don't have even the 
baseline for the other crimes, the enumerated crimes, 
really to compare it to.  And so the result, if you 
start looking around for statistics and saying we need 
these statistics to do it, is that virtually no crimes 
are going to qualify under the residual clause.

 And obviously, that isn't what Congress 
intended when it adopted this broad residual clause.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  May I -- may I -- may I ask 

you just to get some sense about what will qualify?  I 
mean, I think we -- we all agree that the risk of 
violence in arrest is probably going to vary depending 
on -- categorically depending on the crimes.

 I think I would probably agree that 

white-collar crimes are not likely to -- to carry a very 
high risk of violence on arrest.  So I -- there's one 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

category.  Can you think of others, other categories 
outside of white-collar crime, that are going to have a 
lower risk of arrest than, say, the failure-to-report 
category?

 MR. ROBERTS:  What -- we wouldn't sweep in 

any crimes based on arrest if the crimes don't 
themselves involve as part of the crime the avoidance of 
custody, because that shows the close link between the 
crime that I was explaining before.  That's sort of the 
categorical difference, although I would agree with you, 
certainly, that in white-collar crimes in many cases the 
offender is going to submit voluntarily to custody; they 
are not even going to come after him.  And he hasn't 
done anything to show his likelihood to resist in any 
way, and so there is going to be a significantly less 
connection there.

 Violent crimes where you might think that 

there is going to be a higher incidence are going to be 
covered based on the violence of the crime, anyway.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  They are going to be in 

category one.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Right.  They are going to be 

covered already.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes.
 MR. ROBERTS:  So you know, one, we think 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there is a categorical difference between this kind of 
crime which has as an element avoidance custody, and all 
of the ordinary crimes that you're talking about.  But 
even if you go and set that aside and don't draw that 
categorical line, and you look at, well, what's the risk 
of violence, here what you've got is you've got you know 
that they are going to come after him; he knows they are 
coming; he is already deliberately, he has already 
indicated his unwillingness to submit to custody; they 
know that; so they come prepared for resistance.  And in 
Illinois he is by definition a recidivist felon if he 
has committed this crime, and those are characteristics 
that are particularly indicative of dangerousness.  So 
we think this sets it quite apart from other crimes in 
terms of the risk of violence that -- that we are 
talking about.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Do you happen to know how 
many additional crimes are likely to raise issues like 
this under the residual clause?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Not -- you know, how many 

could be covered altogether?  Or --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Well after we decide this 
case, how many more cases like this do you anticipate 
that we're -- we may get under ACCA?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well I'm hopeful that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Court won't have to decide too many other cases with the 
guidance that will be given by Begay and James and 
now -- and now this case.

 So, you know, it has been -- this case, the 
Court took; it had been holding the case for Begay and 
it took it rather than vacating and remanding.  So it's 
not as if this is a case where some conflict has 
developed after the Court was taken to resolve.  We 
think --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Roberts, I'm sorry; do 
you think a soldier who is AWOL commits a violent crime?

 MR. ROBERTS:  I think a soldier that goes 

AWOL -- I mean, the soldier that goes AWOL does probably 
invite somebody to come after them.  It's a little bit 
harder case here because he is not somebody who is a 
recidivist felon.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, he has to be a 
recidivist.  This is one of three offenses for an 
aggravated sentence.  You never have the isolated 
question.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, when he did it first --
he could have done it in his first crime.  So you don't 
know when did this that he had the other two counting 
under the ACCA.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  It would only be a crime 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

if it's his third crime and not if it's his first.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, you don't look to the 
individual person; we're looking to the ordinary case 
and we know from the elements here that you have a 
recidivist -- you have a recidivist felon.  I do think 
that there is a risk of -- you know, there is a risk of 
violent confrontation when a soldier goes AWOL, Your 
Honor.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Sure.
 MR. ROBERTS:  I just don't think it's quite 
as -- as clear a risk as it is -- as it is here, but you 
know, I would have to say that there is some risk.  Yes.

 The -- if I could just address something 
that Justice Kennedy had raised before about statutes 
unlike Illinois's statute that has a -- that generally 
prohibit escape.  One -- one possible problem that could 
arise from a holding that offenses like failure to 
report are not violent felonies is that a statute that 
broadly covered escape, the result would be that jail 
break escapes would not be violent felonies under that 
statute, because the statistics that are out there 
suggest that 89 percent of all escapes are either 
walkaways or failure to report.

 And so unless the charging document 

specifically charged it as a jail break escape, then the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

general -- something that was charged under the general 
escape statute would not qualify for coverage under the 
ACCA.

 And aside from that, if the Court has no 

further questions, we could ask that the judgment of the 
Court of Appeals be affirmed.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Hochman, you have 11 minutes remaining.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT N. HOCHMAN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. HOCHMAN:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
 Just to begin with where Mr. Roberts left 

off, most states in fact do distinguish in their 
statutes between failure to report and prison break 
escapes.  These are cited by both parties in the briefs 
and you can review them, but there are clear 
distinctions in the law.  So the risk that prison break 
escape is somehow going to escape -- escape, if you 
will, from the scope of the statute as a result of a 
reversal is -- is unfounded.

 Just to make a couple of things clear. 
First of all with respect to the sentence, Justice 
Ginsburg, the -- he was sentenced to six additional 
months but it was stayed as -- as was mentioned; and so 
when I was answering that question he did not serve 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

additional time as a result of that, and that's what I 
was referring to.

 If you look at the sentencing transcript, 

that's where the indication is that he did in fact serve 
out four additional weekends.  It's not noted in the --
it's not noted as an additional sentence, punishment for 
it.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What was he serving those 

weekends for?  What was the crime?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  That was the armed robbery --

the robbery crime, not armed robbery, the robbery crime. 
That's the first predicate offense here.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  He just gets weekends for 

that?  How many weekends?

 MR. HOCHMAN:  11.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Pretty good deal.
 (Laughter.)
 MR. HOCHMAN:  Second, with respect to the 

anecdotal cases, you know, we looked at them; you could 
look at them.  If there are two instances where there 
are injury -- there are two instances where there are 
injury, I didn't catch that, and I apologize if I 
misspoke.

 But it doesn't change the core of the 

problem, which is that the anecdotal evidence 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

produced -- and that dates back all the way to 1977, 
they looked back at cases -- they are covering on 
extraordinary broad period of time in looking for this 
stuff, and there is just not -- there is not a lot 
there, if there is anything there at all, with respect 
to injury associated with failure to report.

 On the core substance of their argument, 

Mr. Roberts emphasized that failing to report has as an 
element avoiding arrest, avoiding confinement.  I don't 
actually think that's right.  There is nothing about 
concealment.  There is nothing about hiding.  There is 
nothing about seeking to escape from a police officer 
who comes to bring you back.  He just didn't go; and in 
fact we don't -- the record doesn't explain why; but you 
know, it was the November to December period.  It's the 
holiday period of time for people when they, obviously, 
for a variety of reasons might prefer to spend time with 
their families.  Whatever the reason was --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Statistics show that 

the number of robberies increases during the holiday 
season.  He just needed to get --

(Laughter.)
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought he did this 

four times.  I thought there were four.

 MR. HOCHMAN:  There were four periods from 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the end of November, four consecutive weekends from the 
end of November into December.  There is no indication, 
Mr. Chief Justice, that any further robberies were 
committed during that period.  But the point is --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, there is no 
indication he meant to spend time with his family over 
the holidays.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. HOCHMAN:  Not in the record.  It's 

absolutely not in the record, Your Honor.  No doubt. 
But the point is that while Mr. Roberts stood up and 
said it's about avoiding arrest; it's about concealing 
yourself; it's the sort of person that's prone to react 
violently; the fact is, that's speculation; and 
everything we know from the sentencing commission and 
from their own efforts suggests the contrary.  And 
indeed even the dangerous weapon findings of the 
sentencing commission, I think, should be excluded, 
because under the guidelines, the mere possession of a 
weapon is not a violent felony.

 A felon in possession is not -- cannot be a 
predicate offense under the guidelines.  And so the mere 
possession of a weapon, which is all you have on those 
five instances -- by the way, the fact that they did not 
double-count them as also including four suggests they 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

weren't used in any way, they weren't brandished in any 
way.  It's just not there.  There is really nothing 
there to support the Government's speculation.  If there 
is no further questions, thank you, Your Honors.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 10:54 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

A 
able 18:4 
above-entitled 

1:11 47:8 

absence 34:6 
absolutely 6:14 

46:10 

ACCA 28:12 
30:15 40:24 
41:24 43:3 
ACCA's 20:9 
account 34:2,3,5 
accountable 

21:22 

accurate 25:19 
act 3:12 15:18 
18:14,16 19:7 
19:8 22:13 
action 18:22 
actual 34:13,22 
35:8,8,9 38:8 

add 16:25 
added 13:4 
addition 28:14 

28:15 29:13,16 

additional 8:7 

25:1 40:18 
43:23 44:1,5,6 

address 22:9 
32:11 42:13 

addresses 31:22 
admitted 11:20 
Admittedly 

adopted 11:12 

29:17 

38:17 

affect 5:4 
affirmed 43:6 
aggravated 26:4 

28:15 41:19 

aggressive 3:14 
3:17,23 4:19 
13:1 14:10,13 
14:22 15:2,6,9 
15:17 17:23 
18:1,5,7 19:7 
19:20 20:14 

37:12 

aggressiveness 
15:12 16:1,3 
agree 38:20,23 

39:10 

ALITO 10:14 
10:16 11:21 
12:12 19:19 
40:17,22 

8:12,20 10:19 
11:11 12:2,3,9 
17:24 26:3,22 

appropriate 
21:21 33:23 

argues 3:15 
argument 1:12 

2:2,7 3:3,7 
19:6,19 20:4 
allowed 7:20 9:1 
21:17 31:16 
allows 6:7 
43:9 45:7 
altogether 40:21  arguments 
amended 12:5 
Amendment 

19:23 

11:15 

amount 33:20 
analytically 

4:17 

anecdotal 17:4 

44:19,25 

anecdotes 28:24 
answer 18:10 
answering 43:25 
anticipate 40:23 
anticipated 11:3 

11:15 

anyway 39:19 
apart 40:14 
apologize 44:22 
appeals 4:13 

appear 19:15 
APPEARAN... 

43:6 

1:14 

armchair 22:18 
armed 3:12 
44:10,11 

arrest 3:18,19 

13:12 14:16,17 
16:10,16,21 
17:7 18:3 
20:18,21,25 
21:3,5,6,7 22:7 
38:21,25 39:3 
39:6 45:9 
46:12 

arrested 14:6 
arrestee 20:19 
arson 14:11 
articles 29:3 
ascertain 10:22 
aside 40:4 43:4 
asked 25:16 
asking 6:17 
assault 17:8 

appears 8:1 17:3 
applied 11:14 
apply 26:10 
applying 26:21 

29:22 

assess 30:22 
assessment 
30:19,20 

37:11 

appreciate 

37:15 

apprehended 

apprehending 

32:19 

37:1 

Assistant 1:17 
associated 4:23 

10:25 15:17 
16:20 18:6 
45:6 

assume 15:4 
astray 37:20

Apprendi 11:15  attempted 14:2
attention 12:13
approach 6:6 

attorney 27:1,3 

belief 31:21

27:21 

available 7:10 

attribute 11:16 
automatically 

27:4,17 28:4,4  believe 16:6,10
16:23 17:17
benefit 8:12
best 7:9
beyond 13:10
binge 26:11,15
bit 41:14
bite 13:8
bottom 8:21
brandished 47:1

21:14 36:20 
39:7 40:2 

avoid 8:20,21 
avoidance 21:2 

38:10 

avoiding 21:3,12  break 6:18

45:9,9 46:12 

avoids 21:1 
aware 18:16 

28:9 

AWOL 41:11,13 

41:13 42:7 
a.m 1:13 3:2 

47:7 

B

back 11:13 12:7 

13:14 14:10
15:24 17:6
25:3 36:17
45:1,2,13
bad 31:21
bar 12:18
based 30:19,25
31:14 39:6,19
baseline 38:11
basis 10:1 11:4 

31:5 35:3
battery 17:8
26:4 28:15
29:22

Begay 6:4 13:1,4 

14:9 15:15
17:15,22 35:12 
35:24 36:4
37:12 41:2,5
beginning 3:24

12:10

behalf 1:15,19
2:4,6,9 3:8 
20:5 43:10 

42:20,25 43:14 
43:17

breakout 4:9,14
4:23 5:8,19,19
6:12,21 7:16 
breakouts 5:3,9

5:24

BREYER 32:10
32:14,24 33:17 
34:4

brief 7:15 17:5 

28:24

briefs 43:15
bring 23:3 45:13 
broad 38:17

45:3

broadly 42:19
brought 25:2
burglar 19:10
burglary 14:11

14:21,21,25
15:7,15 18:10 
18:11 19:9
20:12,13,15
33:15,15 34:21 
34:23 35:19
36:9,12 37:16 
37:17

business 28:6
bystander 16:15
bystanders

28:25

C
C 2:1 3:1 

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

case 3:4 5:4,5,8 

44:24 

Career 3:12 
carries 4:2 
carry 16:11 

38:24 

5:16,17 6:9 
7:13 9:23 11:6 
12:8,22,24 
16:14 18:4 
26:17,23,24 
27:1,16 29:23 
30:16 37:4,7 
40:23 41:3,4,5 
41:7,15 42:3 
47:6,7 

cases 7:11 10:16 

Chambers 1:3 

3:4 6:10 

chance 33:9 
change 12:8 

changed 37:8 
characteristics 

characterized 

40:12 

14:12 

charge 9:2,4,6 

27:18,25 

charged 17:8,8 
17:11 29:21 
33:6 42:25 
43:1 

charges 28:1 
11:1 12:13 
charging 6:8 
13:9 17:4,5 
28:23 29:1,2,8 
7:18,19,22 
29:12,14,15 
8:16 42:24 
30:11,17 31:1  Chicago 1:15 
32:3,16,17,20  Chief 3:3,9 4:8 
32:21 33:18,20 
39:11 40:23 
41:1 44:19 
45:2 

6:15 7:12 
18:25 20:2,6 
23:9,19,23 
24:3,9 28:18 
29:5,10 34:24 
43:7,11 45:19 
46:3,5 47:5 
Circuit 37:4,8 

37:10,20 

8:25 

circumstance 
18:21 19:5 

circumstances 

16:5 24:6 

cite 17:5 29:2,3 
cited 16:14 
28:24 29:9 
33:13 43:15 

class 10:25 
clause 14:1 20:9 
35:9 38:15,17 
40:19 

clear 6:14 7:19 

9:9,9 23:2 

case-by-case 

8:19 

cast 31:13 
catch 44:22 
categorical 4:17 

5:14 6:6,25 
8:12,20 9:12 
10:19 11:3,12 
12:2,3,9 17:14 
17:15 26:3,21 
36:21 39:10 
40:1,5 

categorically 

38:22 

categories 39:1 
category 39:1,4 

certain 13:7 

certainly 17:18 

39:21 

20:18 

39:11 

circumscribed 

commit 13:7 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

35:20 42:11 
43:16,21 

close 17:19 21:5 

21:19 22:5,5 
39:8 

32:1,8 

compare 38:12 
comparing 

37:24 

connection 

16:16 21:4,19 
39:16 

connections 

compiled 30:1 
completion 3:19  conscious 16:5 
complicates 

consciously 

22:5,6 

closely 21:23 
cocaine 28:16 
collapses 17:25 
colleagues 34:25  comply 22:10 
colloquy 7:5 

26:7 

9:10 

11:20 

come 11:16 

22:22 23:2,15 
23:16 35:3 
39:13 40:7,10 
41:14 

comes 10:21 

24:22 26:12,18 
37:4 45:13 

comfort 18:22 
comfortable 

18:18,19 

coming 26:15 

40:8 

commission 
16:8 30:2,4 
33:21 34:8 
35:20 38:2 
46:15,18 

Commission's 

4:20 

19:11 

commits 36:13 

41:11 

committed 

13:12 14:15 
27:24 40:12 
46:4 

committing 

21:21 

common 15:19 
24:14,15,18 
commonsense 

31:13 

comparable 
20:11 30:22 

concealing 

46:12 

concealment 

45:11 

concede 4:9 24:3 
concern 14:4 
concerned 17:3 

22:1 35:14 

concerns 11:15 
conclusion 
31:13 34:7 

conduct 3:14,17 
3:23 7:3 11:17 
13:1,3 14:9 
15:17 16:24 
17:12,17 18:5 
18:7 22:19 
27:24 35:16,16 
36:5,5,7 37:14 
37:16 

confinement 
23:21 45:9 
conflict 41:7 
confront 24:21 
confrontation 

14:17 16:16,19 
22:21 26:16 
28:21 35:21 
36:14 37:18 
42:7 

confronted 

11:13 

Congress 4:1 
11:2 12:10 
13:3,6,24 
16:24 38:16 

connected 21:23 

18:16 

consecutive 46:1 
consider 9:1 
consideration 

considered 12:1 
considering 

7:21 

21:6 

consistently 

11:14 

contest 35:17 
context 36:8 
continue 10:15 
continuing 

21:13 

contrary 46:16 
convert 22:6 
convict 10:9 
convicted 6:10 

6:11 7:22 
17:11 24:1 
25:5 26:3 

conviction 9:21 
convictions 11:8 
core 44:24 45:7 
correct 9:16 

37:6 

counsel 20:2 
28:7 34:24 
43:7 47:5 

counting 41:23 
couple 10:18 
17:5 43:21 
course 33:21 

36:3 

Court 1:1,12 

3:10 4:22 8:24 
11:11,13 12:18 
13:1,4 15:14 
16:8,13 17:19 

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

20:7 33:13 
35:14,24 41:1 
41:5,8 43:4,6 
courts 4:13 9:11 

12:4 

Court's 12:9 
coverage 43:2 
covered 4:10 

19:1 35:9 
39:19,23 40:21 
42:19 

covering 45:2 
crack 17:2 
create 17:1 
created 15:21 

20:12 

creates 20:10 
creation 16:5 
crime 5:10 6:20 

8:14 9:6,14 
10:21 19:12 
20:17,18,18,21 
20:25 21:4,5,7 
21:21,23,24,25 
22:1,2,6 24:19 
35:15,15,20,23 
35:25 36:16,22 
37:14 39:2,7,9 
39:19 40:2,12 
41:11,22,25 
42:1 44:9,11 
44:11 

crimes 11:9 
12:15 13:6 
14:5,7 17:9 
18:12 26:5 
36:9,9,16,22 
38:11,11,14,22 
38:24 39:6,6 
39:11,17 40:3 
40:14,18 

criminal 3:12 
22:13 37:2 
critical 4:12 
criticize 33:21 
criticizing 34:1 
cultural 15:19 

23:6 

36:13 40:8 

demonstrated 

custody 21:2,2 
21:12,14 23:7 
24:7 26:8 27:2 
33:3 36:18,20  DEONDERY 
37:25 39:8,12 
40:2,9 
D

Department 

1:18 

1:3 

D 1:17 2:5 3:1 

20:4

damage 17:14
danger 15:16

35:11

dangerous

32:21 33:2,11
46:17

dangerously

dangerousness

18:19

40:13

dangers 35:11
data 5:9 16:7 
29:16 30:4,7
38:9

dates 45:1
days 26:18
deal 44:16
December 45:15 

46:2 

decent 19:6 
decide 5:4 10:17 

30:17 40:22 
41:1 

decided 37:7 
deciding 31:23 
defendant 28:2 

28:8 

define 27:22 
definition 40:11 
degree 19:21 
20:11 22:7 
30:22,23 32:8 
32:8 

deliberate 35:16 

35:19 

deliberately 

22:10 26:7,8 

depending 
38:21,22 

depends 13:16 
describing 

25:21 

deserving 4:6 
despite 35:20 
destroy 8:11 
detected 14:5 

15:2,23 

determination 

11:4 

determine 4:18 

7:1 31:25 

developed 41:8 
difference 36:21 

39:10 40:1 
different 4:16 
4:16,24 6:13 
16:21 20:20 
23:13 24:6,6 
26:6 30:11 
35:18 37:2,12 

difficult 5:16 

6:25 

digging 11:16 
discover 13:13 
discretion 27:5 
discussed 18:2 
dispatched 

14:15 

dispositive 

31:12 

distant 16:10 
distinction 

17:22 18:13 
36:15 

distinctions 

43:17 

distinguish 

distributing 

43:13 

28:16 

district 27:3 
document 6:8 
7:18,19,22 
8:16 42:24 
doing 14:19 

elements 9:2 
10:12 21:17 
26:23 36:11 
42:4 

else's 18:15 
emphasized 

45:8 

empirical 10:23 

17:14 18:16 
22:11,15 36:23  enacted 11:2 

30:19,20

double-count 

46:25 

doubt 7:21 

encompass

17:16 

ended 25:8 

4:24 

22:21 

13:19,20 19:13  enforcement 
31:13 46:10 
dramatically 

engage 17:17 
ensue 18:17 
draw 40:4 
ensuing 35:21 
drawing 18:14 
enter 19:10 
driving 35:12,14  entirely 4:15 
enumerated 
14:18 20:12 
30:23 31:25 
32:9 36:8 
38:11 

duty 22:11 26:7 
D.C 1:8,18 

drunk 35:12,13 

35:14 

35:15 

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 27:2,11
easier 12:18
easily 12:10 14:4 
ed 20:24
edge 23:5
effect 12:5
effort 33:21
efforts 24:16

46:16

either 3:22 7:4 

9:17 26:6
42:22

elect 27:17
element 9:13,14
9:17,23 10:11 
10:11 11:19
14:2 21:4,12
36:10,22 40:2 
45:9

equating 4:14 
errors 4:12 
escape 4:15,23
5:2,23 6:1,18 
6:20 8:14,15
8:16,17 9:15 
12:20,23 14:4 
20:8,13,23,23
20:24 21:1,12
21:13 25:5,19
28:12 42:16,19
42:25 43:2,18
43:18,18 45:12 

escapees 30:8 
escapes 5:2 11:9 
37:24 42:20,22
43:15 

ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 

2:5,8

essential 9:3 
essentially 22:2 
event 15:23 32:4 

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

everybody's 

ever-present 

12:18 

13:11 

evidence 6:14 

9:23 10:4 
44:25 

exactly 15:14 
examination 

8:19 

example 8:14 
28:20 29:4 

examples 29:6,7 

32:3 

excluded 46:18 
excluding 16:25 
excuse 28:19 
exemplar 13:2 
expectations 

15:19,20 

expecting 23:4 

23:14 

experience 31:1 
explain 45:14 
explaining 39:9 
explosives 14:12 
expresses 18:22 
extended 8:2,4 
extent 7:8 
extortion 14:11 
extra 8:6 27:12 
extraordinary 

45:3 

eyes 17:20 
F 

fact 3:21 4:12 

6:12 9:21 
13:14 16:12 
21:23 22:8 
23:7 28:10 
36:12,24 43:13 
44:4 45:14 
46:14,24 

factors 31:14 

36:24 

fail 16:11 24:16 

failed 8:3,4 26:7 
26:12 27:1,11 
failing 6:11 7:23 

18:24 19:20 
22:10 32:15,16 
45:8 

failure 3:11,15 
4:9,15,23 5:3 
7:16 16:16,25 
20:17 22:24,25 
23:21 24:1,2 
28:20 37:25 
42:17,23 43:14 
45:6 

failure-to-rep... 

20:8,13,23 
30:7 33:5 
34:10 39:3 
fall 12:15,16 

17:3 

falsely 18:2 
families 45:18 
family 46:6 
far 8:8 
feet 28:16 
fellow 27:10 
felon 40:11 
41:16 42:5 
46:21 

felonies 28:13 

42:18,20 

felonious 19:3 
felony 3:11 4:2,2 

20:9 46:20 
figures 30:1 
file 27:17,21 
filed 4:21,21 
finally 25:2 
find 9:9 10:6,8,8 

10:24 29:15 
findings 46:17 
firearm 9:5,10 

9:14 

firearms 8:17 
first 3:4 7:1 

11:11,13 14:1 
20:23 23:1 

34:13 35:8,9 

form 11:19 
found 7:4 9:18 
10:1,2 11:17 
11:22 14:14 
four 8:3 28:23 

29:9 44:5 
45:24,24,25 
46:1,25 

frequency 37:24 

37:25 

frequently 

18:20 

friend 28:19,19 
full 15:22 
fully 18:16 
fundamental 

30:15 

further 19:25 

43:5 46:3 47:4 

G

G 3:1
Garner 33:13
gather 6:22
general 1:18

36:16 43:1,1
generally 5:11
10:24 27:7,23
38:9 42:15
generated 4:4
gentlemanly

24:20

getting 8:21
Ginsburg 7:24

8:5 20:16
25:13,16 26:9 
36:15 37:3,6 
37:22 43:23 
45:23 

give 16:22 27:12 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

26:14 37:22 
41:21,22 42:1 
43:22 44:12 

given 22:4 41:2 
gives 7:10 
giving 28:5 

five 32:22 46:24  go 12:14 26:10 
flexibility 12:6 
force 14:3 32:19 

29:3 36:17 
40:4 45:13 

happened 25:21 
happens 17:10 

30:10 

hard 28:5 
harder 12:24 

41:15 

39:18 

goes 26:11 27:6 

27:9 31:16 
41:12,13 42:7 
going 13:2,8,8 

highlight 29:1 
highly 21:22 

harm 5:12 36:2 
hear 3:3 
hiding 45:11 
high 38:25 
15:8 16:6 17:1  higher 22:7 
18:4,4 20:19 
22:17 23:2 
24:15 27:11 
36:25 38:10,15  Hochman 1:15 
2:3,8 3:6,7,9 
38:21 39:2,12 
4:11 5:5,7,13 
39:13,15,18,18 
5:18,25 6:5,24 
39:20,22 40:7 
7:18 8:1,7,23 
43:18 
9:8,16 10:3,12 
10:15 11:10,24 
12:17,22 13:19 
13:25 14:23 
15:4,13 16:4 
18:13 19:3,23 
25:13 43:8,9 
43:11 44:10,15
44:18 45:25 
46:9 

7:14 17:24 
47:3 

3:15 4:14 16:2 
16:9 17:2,25 
Government's 

greater 4:5,7 
14:7 20:20 
35:11 36:25 

good 16:6 44:16 
Government 

hold 12:7 21:22 
holding 41:5 

guard 9:24 
guards 8:18 
guess 33:18 
guidance 41:2 
guidelines 46:19  holidays 46:7 

holiday 45:16,20

42:17 

guilty 10:1,2 

46:22 

24:19 

gun 9:24 34:12 
34:19 35:2,2 

guns 34:12 
guy 25:24 
H

hand 17:23,24
happen 21:24
31:21 35:4
40:17

home 15:8,8

22:17 23:18 

Honor 4:11 8:9 

11:11 19:24 
20:22 24:14 
25:15,20 26:4 
27:13 28:11,23
30:3,13 31:23 
33:25 35:6 
36:6,22 42:8 
46:10 

Honors 17:21 

47:4 

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

26:9,25 27:9 
27:15,20 28:3 
28:18 29:5,10 
29:19,25 30:9 
30:18,25 31:5 
31:8,16,19 
32:2,10,11,14 
32:24 33:17 
34:4,19,24
35:1,10 36:3 
36:15 37:3,6
37:22 38:18 
39:20,24 40:17 
40:22 41:10,17
41:25 42:9,14
43:7,11,22
44:8,13,16
45:19,23 46:3 
46:5 47:5 
justify 21:6 

K

24:7 31:2 
35:16 37:14,16 
39:7 

involved 5:20 
17:6 28:24 
32:19,20 35:12 

involves 3:14 
5:11 15:18 
21:1 24:8 

involving 5:3,24 
isolated 41:19 
issue 6:5 7:3 
issues 40:18 

J
JA 25:20 
Jack 25:25 
jail 8:6,8 25:6,8 
27:12 42:19,25 
James 30:16,21 
30:24 31:22,23 
41:2 

job 12:18 13:9 
judges 37:23 
judgment 31:6 

hopeful 40:25 
hours 26:18 
household 33:15 

34:20 

housing 28:17 
hypothetical 5:1 

5:16,18,21 

I 

identifying 12:4 
identity 28:7 
ignite 16:6 
ignore 31:9,11 
Ill 1:15 
Illinois 6:13 
7:13 23:20 
40:11 

Illinois's 42:15 
illustrate 10:18 
illustrates 30:16 
imagination 

immediately 

35:5 

19:9 

important 17:21 
importantly 

4:16 

impose 21:3 
imposed 14:9 
impossible 

16:20 

incidence 39:18 
included 4:3 
including 46:25 
incorrect 28:23 
increases 45:20 
increasing 21:16 
indicate 6:9 

15:11 

indicated 4:1 

40:9 

indication 7:6 
44:4 46:2,6 

indications 7:3 
indicative 29:23 

40:13 

indicia 6:9 

indictment 7:5 
individual 26:2 

42:3 

individuals 17:7 

17:10 

inform 31:8 
information 
7:10 19:18 

inherent 15:16 
inherently 21:1 

21:1 

injured 8:18 

16:15 

injury 3:13,16 

3:22,24,25 4:3 
4:22 7:9 13:5 
13:23 16:12,20 
17:24 18:3,6 
19:16 20:10 
28:25 29:23 
32:20 33:9,13 
35:8,24,25
38:8 44:21,22
45:6 

innocent 16:14 

28:25 

inquiry 13:6 
instance 16:14 

34:13 

instances 16:18 
27:16 44:20,21
46:24 

instinct 31:5 
instinctive 31:21 
institution 24:2 
instructed 10:7 
instructions 9:8 

10:7 

intended 38:17 
intent 19:11,11
interpret 17:18 
invading 15:18 
18:14,25 19:2 
19:4 

invite 41:14 
inviting 22:20 
involve 13:22 

43:5 

Kennedy 4:25 
5:6,10,15,21 
6:3,17 12:19 
22:23 26:25 
27:9,15,20 
28:3 30:18,25 
31:5,8,19 36:3 
42:14 

killed 8:18 

jury 7:4 9:8,9,18 
9:25 10:5,6,7,8 
11:17,22,23,25 
Justice 1:18 3:3 
3:9 4:8,25 5:6 
5:10,15,21 6:3  kind 12:5,25 
15:16 16:23 
6:15,17 7:12 
17:1,7 20:11 
7:24 8:5,10 9:4 
9:13,22 10:10 
20:13,21 21:17 
35:18 38:5 
10:14,16 11:21 
12:12,19 13:16 
40:1 
13:21 14:20,25  know 4:20 5:8 
15:5,7,10,13 
8:17,18 9:20 
9:24 22:4,14 
15:24 18:9,25 
22:15 23:16,17 
19:19 20:2,6 
20:16 21:9,15 
23:17,18,24 
25:15 26:1 
21:25 22:4,14 
30:14 31:2 
22:23 23:9,19 
33:4,19 38:6 
23:23 24:3,9 
24:18 25:1,9 
39:25 40:6,10 
40:17,20 41:4 
25:13,16,24 

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

41:23 42:4,6 
42:12 44:19 
45:15 46:15 
knowing 15:21 
knows 23:16,17 

36:14 40:7 

L

late 26:18,18
Laughter 44:17

45:22 46:8

law 3:22 15:19 

22:21 43:17
lawyers 31:2
leading 28:21
learned 16:7
led 37:19
left 32:18 43:12 
legal 22:10 26:7 
level 11:18
levels 6:13
liability 35:15

35:23

light 4:20
likelihood 39:14
line 40:5
link 39:8
linked 20:24
list 11:8 12:14 
listed 18:12
lists 13:22
little 16:9 41:14 
logical 22:5,6
long 11:8
look 4:18 5:10 

5:14,22,25 6:7 
6:19 7:2,7,8,9
8:15 10:4,13
10:16 26:22,23
26:23 27:24
28:3,4,6,8 30:1 
31:24 40:5
42:2 44:3,20

looked 6:3 29:8 
29:11,12 32:17 
32:18 44:19
45:2

Official - Subject to Final Review 

13:24 14:5,7 
38:16 45:16 
occasion 30:1 
occur 26:16 
occurred 9:20 
offender 3:18 

page 2:2 7:14 
25:19 29:2 

parallel 35:22 

35:23 

pardon 27:4 
parentheticals 

29:1 

4:6 13:11 14:6 
14:14,16 21:21  parole 24:4 
23:4,9 26:2 
36:13 39:12 
offense 3:19,20 

39:7 

part 12:1 13:5 

particular 8:15 

picking 24:12 
plea 7:5 11:20 
please 3:10 
10:15 20:7 
pled 7:4 9:17 
point 6:19 14:8 
16:21 21:18 
22:10 30:15 
31:19 34:9 
36:4 37:15 
46:4,11 

points 20:22 
police 13:12 
14:15 16:15 
17:9 23:15 
24:12,15 29:22 
45:12 

looking 7:8,13  modified 9:11 

12:2 

modifier 32:4 
moment 13:14 

9:7 23:15 26:2 
26:15 27:14 
30:13 33:4 
38:5,13 42:3  Monday 1:9 
45:3 
22:16 26:12 
months 25:6,7 
25:22 43:24 
morning 3:4 
22:16 26:12 

lose 32:4 
lost 25:10,12 
lot 45:4 
low 34:22 
lower 39:3 
M 

mouth 6:16 

N 

magnitude 30:9  N 1:15 2:1,1,3,8 
making 10:21 
19:23 31:6,19 
37:15 

narrow 8:25 9:6 
narrower 6:7 

3:1,7 43:9 

man 27:1 
Massachusetts 
17:6 29:16,18 

nature 15:1,11 

8:13 

28:7 

materials 16:13  necessarily 4:3 
matter 1:11 3:21 
9:18,20 10:6 
necessary 9:18 

4:17 9:18 
19:21 26:21 
47:8 

MATTHEW 
1:17 2:5 20:4 

need 24:9,13 

31:12 

38:13 

needed 45:21 

maximum 27:25  neither 3:13,21 
mean 8:12 9:4 

10:6 13:21 
14:20,25 21:16  night 15:1 
28:6 29:8 
30:14 35:2 
38:20 41:13 
meant 14:21 
37:13 46:6 
mentioned 

43:24 

mentions 9:5,5 
mere 13:10 
46:19,22 
merely 7:22 
method 33:23 
mind 27:9 
minutes 43:8 
misspoke 44:23 
mistake 4:24 

6:12 13:12 
20:12 21:13 
23:25 24:8 
25:21 26:24 
27:3,11 33:4 
34:11 36:10,11 
44:12 46:22 
offenses 14:15 
14:19 30:24 
31:25 32:9 
41:18 42:17 
officer 16:15 
17:9 23:24 
29:22 45:12 
officers 22:21 
okay 9:4,22 

10:25 11:5 
particularly 

40:13 

parties 43:15 
passive 22:2,6,9 

22:12,19 

policeman 24:21 
policy 27:7,25
position 10:20 

paying 12:13 
penal 24:1 
people 17:2,16 
24:16 26:15 
29:21 33:5,6,7  possession 46:19 
33:8 34:10 
45:16 

possible 29:23 

46:21,23

37:8 

percent 5:2,3,23 

42:16 

29:20 33:1,2,6  potential 3:13 
33:9,12 34:17 
34:20 42:22 

23:13 

45:16 46:4 
periods 45:25 
oral 1:11 2:2 3:7  permits 10:4 
person 4:6,19 

33:17 

opposed 4:9 
opposite 22:8 

21:11 32:13 
31:11 
34:11 
never 11:2 41:19  opportunity 
nonviolent 11:6 
normally 24:22 
noted 44:5,6 
notion 14:9 
November 1:9 
45:15 46:1,2 
number 10:23 
32:17,20,21 
26:24 37:1 
45:20 
40:3 42:3 
numerous 36:19  ought 28:5 

20:4 

order 10:8 21:24 
ordinary 21:5 

O
O 2:1 3:1 
obligation 21:2
observing 19:10 
obviously 12:16

37:23 

outside 39:2 
o'clock 22:16 

P

P 3:1 

percentage 

34:15 

perilous 38:6 
period 45:3,15 

11:6 18:18,22 
24:19 33:5,24 
36:16 42:3 
46:13 

Petitioner 1:4 
1:16 2:4,9 3:8 
22:12 35:17 
43:10 

physical 14:3 

20:10 

physically 23:3 

3:20,21,25
11:5 13:5 
15:16 16:1,3
19:16 20:10 
30:6,16,18
31:15,17,18,24
32:3,5,7 35:7 
38:8 

precisely 22:15 
predicate 44:12 

46:22 

prefer 45:17 
prepared 40:10 
presence 9:10 
presented 10:5 

30:23

presents 3:12
preserve 17:22
Pretty 44:16
previous 28:12
prison 4:14,23 

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

5:8,19,19 6:12  purposefully 
9:25 22:11,17 
23:16 24:2,17 
24:20,24 25:6 
43:14,17 

puts 10:20 

put 6:16 22:18 

22:20 

32:14,15 33:11  recapture 20:24 

probably 23:17 
38:21,23 41:13 
probation 8:2,4 
23:24 24:4,5 
25:6,7,22 

problem 8:10 

12:14,21 35:1 
35:25 42:16 
44:25 

problems 11:10 

12:3 

proceed 33:24 
proceeds 33:19 
produced 45:1 
prohibit 42:16 
prone 23:5,10 

46:13 

properly 14:12 
prosecute 27:5 
prosecutions 

5:23 

prosecutor 

27:10 

prospect 3:18 
13:11,17,20 
14:6,13 18:15 
37:17 

provide 12:5 
provision 7:16 
provisions 6:22 
PSR 25:20 
public 28:16 
punished 6:13 
punishment 4:7 

44:6 

purely 22:12 
purpose 8:20 

22:17 

purposeful 

20:14 22:18 
35:17 36:1,4,5 
37:11 

Q

qualifies 20:8
qualify 19:22

38:15,19 43:2 

quantifying

10:23

question 6:25
8:16 11:22
25:17 29:24
30:6 34:5,25
41:20 43:25
questioning

34:16

questions 19:25

43:5 47:4

quite 15:6 40:14 

42:10

R

R 3:1
raise 40:18
raised 42:14
rate 33:2,12
reach 34:7
reaches 34:8
react 23:5,10

46:13

read 12:13

realized 13:18

32:14

18:21

really 8:10 9:19 

24:13 25:25
28:6 35:22
38:12 47:2

reason 3:17 12:7 

14:23 15:14
16:6,10,23
17:4,16 19:6 
19:13 45:18
reasons 37:2

45:17 

REBUTTAL 

2:7 43:9 

21:3 24:16 
36:25 

recidivism 4:7 
recidivist 40:11 
41:16,18 42:5 
42:5 

13:8 19:17 
37:12 38:6 
requires 6:6 
15:25 16:4 
30:15 38:7 

requisite 19:11 
resemble 12:25 
reserve 20:1 
residual 20:9 

38:15,17 40:19 

22:7 

29:21 

resisting 17:7 

resistance 40:10 
resisted 26:8 

resist 3:18,19 
13:11 14:17 
20:19 39:14 

respond 15:20 
15:22 22:24 
23:1,10 

record 7:2 8:8 
16:22 45:14 
46:9,10 
refer 9:11 
referred 12:2 
referring 44:2 
refers 3:25 
refusal 24:7 
resolve 41:8 
regard 18:10 
regardless 18:20  respect 43:22 
related 37:2 
44:18 45:5 
relevant 30:10 
reliability 11:18 
reliable 6:8 9:2 
remainder 20:1  Respondent 
remaining 43:8 
1:19 2:6 20:5 
remanding 41:6  response 19:5 
result 37:13 
report 3:11,15 
38:12 42:19 
4:10,15,21,24 
43:19 44:1 
5:4 6:11 7:17 
results 24:11 
7:23 8:4 16:11 
return 32:16 
16:17 17:1 
reversal 43:20 
18:24 19:20 
20:17 22:11,17  review 43:16 
revise 12:10 
23:21 24:1,2 
right 13:24 15:6 
24:20,23 26:8 
15:14,24 16:2 
26:13 27:2,11 
32:23,24 37:4 
28:21 32:12,15 
39:22 45:10 
38:1 42:18,23 
Ripper 25:25 
43:14 45:6,8 
risk 3:13,16,21 
reported 17:6 
reproduced 
3:22,24,25 4:3 
4:4,22 5:12 7:8 
7:9 10:22,24 
10:25 11:5 
13:5 16:12 
17:23 18:3,6 

require 5:14 
required 37:12 

requirement 

7:14 

38:6 

19:16,21 20:10 
20:11,19 21:7 
21:16 26:19 
30:6,10,16,18 
30:22,23 32:5 
33:14 34:22 
35:7,18,19,20
35:25 36:25 
37:1 38:8,20
38:25 39:3 
40:5,15 42:6,6 
42:11,12 43:17 
robberies 45:20 

46:3 

robbery 13:22 
13:22 14:1,21
15:5 26:4 
28:15 44:10,11
44:11,11

ROBERT 1:15 
2:3,8 3:7 43:9 
Roberts 1:17 2:5 

3:3 4:8 6:15 
7:12 18:25
20:2,3,4,6,16
20:22 21:11,19
22:3,9,20,25
23:9,12,19,22
23:23,25 24:3 
24:5,9,13,25
25:4,11,15,18
26:1,14 27:7 
27:13,19,23
28:9,18,22
29:5,7,10,13
29:19,20,25
30:3,12,21
31:4,7,10,22
32:6,13,23
33:1,25 34:9 
34:20,24 35:6 
35:13 36:6,19
37:5,10 38:3 
39:5,22,25
40:20,25 41:10 
41:12,21 42:2 
42:10 43:7,12 

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

45:8,19 46:5 
46:11 47:5 
routine 13:10 
rule 4:17 5:14 
6:6,25 9:12 
11:12 12:9 
17:14,15 

run 7:11 
S 
S 2:1 3:1 
sample 29:14,17 

30:5 32:16 
33:10 34:2,5,7 
sampling 33:19 

satisfied 4:19 

33:23 

19:17 

satisfies 3:16 
satisfy 3:22 14:1 

19:14 

saying 8:25 

second 19:16 
23:4 25:22 
26:17 37:20 
44:18 

see 5:11 6:19 

8:15 21:16,16 
21:22 22:5 
23:24 29:15 
seeking 45:12 
sense 9:17 24:15 

24:18 32:7 
38:19 

sentence 7:24 

8:1 25:19 
41:19 43:22 
44:6 

sentenced 25:4,5 

43:23 

sentencing 4:20 
16:8 30:2,4,7 
32:12 33:21 
38:2 44:3 
46:15,18 

15:25 16:19 
21:11 23:12,13  separate 6:22 
26:12 31:10 
7:16 11:21 
33:10 34:1 
38:13 

separately 17:8 

17:11 

says 9:19 10:5 

16:2 17:25 
22:12 25:21 
27:10 30:21 
31:18,23 

SCALIA 8:10 

9:4,13,22 
10:10 13:16,21 
14:20,25 15:5 
15:10,24 18:9 
21:9 24:18 
25:1,9,24 
34:19 35:1 
44:8,13,16 

scenario 15:21 

16:10,21 
scope 43:19 
sea 12:7 
seal 25:23 
season 45:21 

separating 13:9 
serious 3:13,25 
4:1 5:12 6:12 
10:22,24 11:5 
13:4 17:14 
19:16 20:10 
24:11 31:18,24 
32:3,7 35:24 
serve 8:2 43:25 

44:4 

serving 44:8 
set 40:4 
sets 40:14 
Seventh 37:4,8 

37:10,20 
shave 8:13 
Shepard 6:2,5 
7:2,19 8:24 
9:19 10:3 
11:12,25 12:4 

shoulder 23:15 
show 18:5 19:22 

22:2 24:16 
28:5 35:11 
36:1 39:14 
45:19 

shown 4:25 5:1 

36:17 

shows 21:19 
30:7 33:11 
39:8 

side 7:9 19:8 
sight 32:4 
significantly 

39:15 

similar 17:9 
20:13 32:8 
simply 18:5 

31:17 

single 10:21 
16:14 28:20 
singled 15:15 
singling 13:6,9 

16:24 

singly 4:5 
sitting 23:18 
situation 10:20 
11:9 18:19,20 
18:23 24:4 
35:18 

six 25:5 43:23 
Sixth 11:15 
size 30:5 33:10 

34:2,5,7 

19:2,4 

sorry 7:12 29:11 

34:24 41:10 
sort 4:6,6,18 

13:3 17:2,19 
18:18,21,23 
31:3 36:20 
39:9 46:13 
sound 25:25 
sounds 10:10,11 
soup 15:25 
Souter 15:7,13 
21:15,25 22:4 
22:14 31:16 
32:2 38:18 
39:20,24 

so-called 32:5 
space 15:18 

18:15 19:1,2,4 

speak 28:10 
special 11:19 

16:23,24 
specific 7:6 
specifically 

42:25 

speculation 
46:14 47:3 
spend 45:17 

46:6 

square 18:9 
standard 3:23 

4:19 13:2 14:8 
17:23 18:7 
19:8,14 

slippery 8:22 
slope 8:22 
small 29:17 30:5  start 38:13 

14:8 

standards 3:17 

33:10,20 34:7 

sneaky 15:3 
soldier 41:11,12 

41:13 42:7 
Solicitor 1:17 
somebody 11:7 
18:15 23:2,14 
24:12 26:5,17 
41:14,15 

someone's 19:1 

states 1:1,6,12 

3:5 27:4 43:13 

statistic 33:14 

34:17 

statistical 34:16 
statistician 
33:22 34:6 

statistics 19:21 
24:10,11,14 
30:13,17,20 

31:8,9,11,11 
31:13 32:12 
34:21 35:3,4 
35:11 38:4,5 
38:13,14 42:21 
45:19 

statute 3:25 4:10 
5:2,22,23 6:1,8 
6:17 8:14 
10:17 11:13 
12:10 13:21 
14:19 17:1,18
19:2 23:20 
26:9 31:17 
35:6 38:7,7
42:15,18,21
43:2,19

statutes 7:13 
42:14 43:14 
statutory 12:8 
stay 22:17,18
stayed 25:6 

43:24 

step 7:1 8:24 
13:14 14:10 
Stevens 29:19 
29:25 30:9 
32:11 35:10 
41:10,17,25
42:9 

stood 46:11 
strange 17:18 
stress 38:4 
strict 35:15,23
structure 19:10 
study 37:24 
stuff 45:4 
submit 23:7 
24:7 39:12 
40:9 

submitted 11:23 

11:24 16:8,13
47:6,8 

subsection 6:7 
substance 45:7 
substantially 

12:24 

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

sufficient 3:22 

18:3,6 

suggest 8:11 
15:20 37:23 
42:22 

suggests 18:17 
22:8 46:16,25 

support 47:3 
supported 28:1 
supports 30:4 
suppose 4:25 5:1 

8:14 30:10 

supposed 22:16 
24:17 26:1,10 
Supreme 1:1,12 
sure 16:18 42:9 
surely 13:16 

14:13 

sweep 39:5 
sweeping 17:13 

T 

T 2:1,1 
take 4:8 7:20 
18:14 23:20 
34:1,2,5,10 

taken 18:22 33:3 

41:8 

talk 35:7 36:7 
talked 36:4 
talking 28:17 

31:14 40:3,16 

talks 35:7 
Taylor 15:15 
ted 13:7 
tell 8:8 19:9 

26:25 33:22 
34:6 

Tennessee 33:13 
terminate 22:22 
terms 34:17 

40:15 

thank 20:2 43:7 

43:11 47:4,5 
thing 6:21 11:7 
17:21 22:23 

things 9:1,1 

17:19 36:20 
43:21 

told 24:23 25:14 
traffic 22:24 

23:1,11 

19:6,14 
trial 10:4 
tried 12:4 
trigger 36:14 
triggered 23:21 
true 14:5 18:11 

think 4:11,12 
5:7,13,13,18 
5:25 6:25 7:6,7  transcript 44:3 
8:23,23 9:10 
9:11 10:3,12 
10:18 11:10,25 
12:3,14,17,23 
13:23 14:1,4 
14:23 15:13,14 
19:5 24:5,13 
24:14,22 25:18 
26:20 27:7,16 
27:20,23 29:22 
30:3,12 31:12 
31:22 32:11 
33:16 34:21 
35:10,13 36:19 
38:4,20,23 
39:1,17,25 
40:14 41:9,11 
41:12 42:5,10 
45:10 46:18 
thinking 13:3 
third 23:6 28:14 

two 6:22 11:10 
20:22 21:20 
28:23 29:6,7,9
29:17 38:9 
41:23 44:20,21

try 23:3 30:22 
trying 10:21 
11:16 21:3 
34:25 

type 24:23 
types 20:24 
typical 20:25 

28:25 

42:1 

typically 6:20 

21:4 

7:11 

U

undermining 

17:15 

understand 

21:10 

thought 6:16 
13:24 29:12 
37:11,13 45:23 
45:24 

thousand 28:16 
threat 13:23 
threatened 14:3 
three 28:13 
34:11,11,12
41:18 

ticket 22:24 23:1 

23:11 

time 8:6,8 20:1 

23:16 25:2 
27:21 28:5 
32:18,18 37:20 
37:22 44:1 
45:3,16,17
46:6 

times 24:10 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

30:11,11 45:24  unsurprising 

unwilling 23:7 
transcripts 10:4  unwillingness 
treatment 16:25 
trespass 19:1,4 

40:9 

unusual 26:17 

17:10 

26:23 

use 14:2,2,3,11 
34:13,19 35:2 
35:8,9 

usually 31:2 
U.S 27:1,17 

V

28:13,21 35:21 
36:4,7,9,9,12 
36:12,14 37:11 
37:14,16,17,18 
39:17 41:11 
42:7,18,20 
46:20 

violently 3:18 
14:17 15:22 
23:5,10 29:21 
46:14 

virtually 38:14 
visualize 13:15 

14:10 

W

26:11,18 39:12 

volume 25:22,23
voluntarily 

v 1:5 3:4 33:13 
vacating 41:6
validity 34:16
variety 45:17
various 29:2 
vary 38:21
verdict 11:19 
view 18:1,2 
vigorous 24:16  want 6:16 15:1 
violated 25:7 
violation 24:5 

17:19 36:17
warrants 4:5 
Washington 1:8

walkaways

walks 11:7

28:12 

42:23

violence 5:11 

1:18

way 8:25 9:25 

15:11 16:1,3,6  wasn't 26:19
18:17 19:7 
21:6,16 24:11 
24:21 26:19 
31:15 33:14 
34:14,22 36:10 
36:25 37:1,24 
37:25 38:21,25 
39:19 40:6,15 

9:25 11:13
13:7 15:15
17:18 20:15,25
24:17 25:2 
37:9 39:15
45:1 46:24 
47:1,2

understanding 

violent 3:11,14  weapon 32:22

23:20 37:7 
understood 
28:18,19 

undisputed 6:10 
unfounded 

43:20 

United 1:1,6,12 

3:4 27:4 

universe 5:22 
6:1 33:18,19 

33:2,7,8 46:17 
46:20,23 

weapons 5:3,24
week 4:22

3:16,23 4:19 
11:8,8 13:1 
14:10,13,22 
15:2,5,9,17 
16:19,23 17:7  weekends 8:3
17:12,17,22,25 
18:5,7,18,20 
19:20 20:9,14 
21:7 22:21 
24:23 26:5,16  weight 33:11

24:21,24 25:10 
25:12 26:10
44:5,9,13,14
46:1

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

went 29:14 
1970s 33:14 
weren't 47:1,1 
1977 45:1 
We'll 3:3 
2
we're 40:24 42:3 
we've 10:17 18:2  2a 7:14 
31:1,20 
34:17

2.4 33:8,12

white-collar 

38:24 39:2,11 
willingly 15:21 
willingness 36:1 
word 4:1 
words 6:16 
work 10:19 
17:13,15 
worry 9:15 
wouldn't 18:11 

20:16 26:21 
39:5 

wrestled 9:24 

20 2:6 12:11 
2008 1:9 
3

3 2:4
3.1 33:1,1
3.8 34:20
30 25:7,22
4

42 33:6 34:10,11 
43 2:9

X 

x 1:2,7 

5

5 25:8 
5/31-6 7:14 

Y 

7 

years 10:18 
12:11 25:8 
27:2,12 
Z 

7.1 30:8 33:6 
720 7:13
8
89 42:22 
9
06-11206 1:5 3:4  90 5:1,23 
99 30:11

zero 32:19,21 

9 22:16

0 

1 
10 1:9 5:3 
10,000 30:10 
10:03 1:13 3:2 
10:54 47:7 
100 30:11 
11 29:20 43:8 

44:15 

113 25:19 
114 25:20 
15 27:12 
160 32:16 33:18 
18 29:17 
19 29:2 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

