Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
ALTRIA GROUP, INC., ET AL. 
:
      
:
         
 Petitioners 
:  No. 07-562 
                       
STEPHANIE GOOD, ET AL. 
: 
          
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, October 6, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:05 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of

 the Petitioners. 

DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of

 the Respondents. 

DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ., Assistant to the

 Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington,
 D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Respondents. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                    

3


DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondents 
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ.


                   

23


 On behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Respondents 

             

41


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                   

51


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:05 a.m.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument 

first this term in Altria Group v. Stephanie Good.

 Mr. Olson.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON

 ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS

 MR. OLSON:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 Respondents' state law claims track nearly 

verbatim the Cigarette Labeling Act's pre-emption 
provision.  For example, the complaint challenges 
promotions of light cigarettes as less harmful and safer 
to smokers than regular cigarettes.  But the statute, 
Congress, explicitly preempted any requirement 
respecting the promotion of cigarettes based upon 
smoking and health.  In short, the Respondents are 
seeking in state court precisely what Congress 
pre-empted.  There is no space --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Olson, what if 

the state law claim did not require any inquiry into the 
relationship between smoking and health?  Something 
along the lines of saying our studies show that light 
cigarettes are healthier for you, and in fact their 
studies show the opposite.  So all you, all the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

plaintiff would have to show is that there was a 
deception, a disconnect between the studies and the ad. 
It wouldn't matter whether light cigarettes were 
healthier or not healthier.  Is that the type of action 
that could be brought?

 MR. OLSON:  Well, I think the facts could 
differ from case to case, Mr. Chief Justice.  But the 
inquiry is going to be generally, I think, simple:  Is 
there a requirement?  Is it based upon smoking and 
health, and does it appear in an advertising or 
promotion of a cigarette.  Now, I suppose there might be 
conceivably circumstances where it's impossible to tell 
that the requirement is not connected in some way with 
smoking and health, but it's certainly clear here.

 The complaint specifically talks in terms of 

promoting cigarettes, purporting to be less harmful or 
safer, despite serious health problems associated with 
smoking.  These appear at the beginning in paragraph 2 
of the amended complaint which is at pages, beginning 
Joint Appendix pages 26 through 28.  I invite the 
Court's attention to paragraph 2 of the amended 
complaint and paragraphs 15 and 18 of the amended 
complaint.  In fact, the words "promotion," 
"cigarettes," "smoking," "safety," and "health," the 
very words that appear in the Labeling Act statute, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

appear, I counted at least 12 times in the amended 
complaint.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is it a question of just 

how you phrase it, Mr. Olson?  Is there any scope --
does your argument leave any scope for attorney general, 
state attorney general imposition of state law remedies 
against a deceptive practice involving advertising 
cigarettes.  To give you concrete examples, suppose a 
state attorney general said in every - suppose the 
practice were in every carton of cigarettes the 
cigarette manufacturer includes an insert that says:  If 
you want to ingest less nicotine, buy our cigarettes; if 
you want to ingest less nicotine, buy our cigarettes. 
And the state attorney general goes after that statement 
in the carton as false and deceptive advertising.  Would 
there be any scope for that?

 MR. OLSON:  I think that there is.  In 

answer to the general question that you ask, Justice 
Gins burg, there is plenty of room for an attorney 
general to pursue deceptive advertising.  Another 
example -- and I'll come to the one you mentioned -- is 
that someone might misrepresent the number of cigarettes 
in a package or other things having to do with 
cigarettes.  That would not necessarily be related to 
smoking and health.  So there is not a pre-emption if 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there is not a relationship between the prohibition and 
smoking and health.  The example you gave might require 
some sort of inquiry as to what is motivating the 
attorney general.  The motivation is what you referred 
to, your Court referred to in the Reilly case and I 
would say --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Mr. Olson, doesn't your 

answer in effect, in practical terms, exclude the 
possibility of inserts like that?  I mean, what else 
would they be addressing except smoking and health? 
That's the only subject on the table.

 MR. OLSON:  I think that's probably true in 

most cases, Justice Souter, that the reason why there 
might be regulations at the State level having to do 
with cigarettes and advertising by and large is going to 
have to do with smoking and health.  The Court went 
through the same inquiry in the Reilly case where it had 
to do with billboards and --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So your answer then to my 
specific example would be the attorney general could not 
go after such a statement, "If you want to ingest less 
nicotine, buy our cigarettes"?

 MR. OLSON:  If -- if the courts were to 
conclude that it had a relationship with smoking and 
health, the answer is yes, Justice Ginsburg, but there 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

might be some case in which someone said, well, the 
issue about nicotine and content of nicotine is being 
regulated because it doesn't have anything to do with 
smoking and health, but in the environment in which this 
-- this statute was passed and this litigation was 
pursued, there certainly isn't any question here.  Now, 
I think Justice Stevens, even in his dissenting opinion 
in the Reilly case, focused on the content.  He said and 
the -- your dissenting opinion in that case said, as 
opposed to location, that the Labeling Act was focusing 
on the content of advertising.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But suppose that a new 

drug is found for the treatment of a condition, glaucoma 
-- hypothetical -- and the evidence is stunningly clear 
that smoking with this new drug causes a severe allergic 
reaction.  Does the cigarette manufacturer have any duty 
to disclose this on the label or in promotions?

 MR. OLSON:  No, Justice Kennedy, to the --

the Federal Trade Commission, by the way, has full 
authority to regulate deceptive --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No, I -- they've just 

found this out last week.  Do they have any -- there can 
be no -- I take it under your position there can be no 
suit based on misleading or false promotion or labeling, 
and there can be no suit even for the sale of an unsafe 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

item?

 MR. OLSON:  Well, there could be -- the 

States may regulate the sale of items.  The Labeling Act 
provision only relates to promotion, marketing, 
advertising, and that sort of thing.  The State can 
prohibit the sale of cigarettes.  States and 
municipalities have done that sort of thing.  This 
statute has three provisions in it:  Is what the State 
is attempting to do a requirement or prohibition. 
There's no question that that's involved here.  Does it 
have to do with the advertising or promotion of 
cigarettes?  There's no question that this complaint is 
aimed at the advertising and promotion of cigarettes. 
And does the advertising or promotion have to do with 
smoking and health?

 JUSTICE BREYER:  So, in your view, it says 
in Cipollone that this -- that the four people said in 
Cipollone that this statute does not pre-empt State law 
where it's based on a prohibition of making a false 
statement of material fact.  For example, to make a 
funny example, somebody could advertise smoking 42 
cigarettes a day will grow back your hair.

 (Laughter.)
 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's totally false, and 

in your view, that would be pre-empted, if Congress 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

attempted to pre-empt a state law that says you cannot 
make a completely false statement of material fact --

MR. OLSON:  I don't --
JUSTICE BREYER:  --

if it's based on -- has 

something to do with smoking and health.

 MR. OLSON:  I don't mean to be whimsical, 

but I think that, to the extent there's a representation 
with respect to growing hair or something like that, 
that may not -- it probably isn't -- have to do with 
smoking and health.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, I was trying to 

produce an -- I mean, it will build strong bodies eight 
ways.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. OLSON:  Yes.  And let me say with 

respect to the Cipollone plurality opinion, which was 
found to be baffling, confusing, litigation- generating, 
easily abated by the labeling of the complaint, and 
superseded by a number of subsequent decisions by this 
Court, it should be set aside and restated.  However, 
the very case that the Cipollone decision in the 
plurality did decide was pre-empted even under that 
plurality opinion, and this is at page 527 of the 
opinion, is an advertising that purported to neutralize, 
minimize, down-play, negate, or disclaim the warning 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

label on the packages.  This complaint is precisely that 
claim.  You could probably not have written a claim more 
squarely --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Excuse me.  The reason I 
think the plurality wrote this, I'm guessing, is that 
when you read through this statute it seems as if what 
Congress had in mind in the statute was not setting 
aside State law, which is tradition, about not making 
false statements, false and deceptive advertising law. 
It was concerned with a different thing.  They said, to 
the cigarette companies:  You have to put on the label 
"Smoking is dangerous to your health."  We don't want 
States telling you to put other things like that on the 
label, and we don't want States forbidding you to put a 
picture of the Marlboro man or Lauren Bacall with her 
cigarette.  We don't want States to tell you that you 
can't do that.  That would be focused on the object of 
the statute, which no one said had as its objective 
setting aside traditional unfair and deceptive 
advertising law.  I think that's the argument.

 MR. OLSON:  That is the argument, and the 
Respondents are making that argument.  I submit that 
that argument is squarely answered by the text of the 
statute, which this Court has said again and again you 
have to turn to.  The text of the statute says no 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

requirement or prohibition; it doesn't say no 
requirement or prohibition except one which is expressly 
misleading.  And the reason you mentioned, Justice 
Breyer, what was the background for the statute or what 
was Congress intending to do, well, fortunately on 
section 1331 of the Labeling Act, which is on 1A of the 
blue brief, Congress declares its policy and purpose 
squarely, unequivocally, and in what this Court said in 
Reilly was sweeping language:  Any relationship between 
smoking and health.  And then Congress went on to point 
out that with the labeling requirements, it intended for 
consumers to receive certain information about the 
smoking of cigarettes with specific labels, and then 
went on to say, without hurting the commerce and the 
national economy to be protected from confusing 
cigarette labeling and advertising regulations that 
might be "non-uniform, confusing, or diverse."

 Now, Justice Stevens again in the Reilly 
opinion when he was distinguishing in his concurring 
opinion -- I can't recall whether it's a concurring or 
dissenting opinion -- focused on the fact that different 
requirements by different States might cause those very 
diverse, confusing advertising.  If one State says, 
you've got to put something else in there about this; 
one State says that so-called descriptors are 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

misleading, as was the case under this case, and another 
State says, like Illinois said in another case, that 
they are not misleading; that national advertising 
becomes impossible.  That's inconsistent and Congress 
expressed what its policy was.

 And, Justice Breyer, the Court went through 
the same process in the Morales case and the Wolens case 
in connection with airline and deregulation and whether 
or not misleading advertising might be expressly 
pre-empted.  The Court went through the same sort of 
process in the Riegel case with respect to medical 
devices.  The Court went through the same process in the 
Rowe case, decided on the same day as Riegel in 
connection with another context.  And again, with 
respect to the Reilly case, the Court --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Olson, you're relying 

on 1334(b), I take it, specifically.

 MR. OLSON:  Yes, Justice Stevens.  Not just 

1334(b) but 1331, which it helps explain.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But the prohibition you're 

talking about is in 13 -- in your express pre-emption 
argument -- 1334(b).  And I was just going to ask you, 
is a State requirement prohibiting false statements 
about smoking and health a requirement based on smoking 
and health? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. OLSON:  I think it is, unless I 

misunderstood your question.  If a State decides what 
may be in the advertising or promotion --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  The predicate for "based 

on smoking" is the word "requirement."  And a 
requirement that you may not make any false statements, 
would that be a requirement based on smoking and health?
 MR. OLSON:  Well, the statute contains the 

words both "requirement" and "prohibition."  And in your 
plurality opinion in Cipollone on page 527, the same 
page I mentioned before, you made the point that a 
prohibition is merely the converse of a requirement. 
And either a prohibition or a requirement with respect 
to advertising if it relates to smoking and health is 
pre-empted.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  The question I'm asking, 

though, is a requirement that you make no false 
statements a requirement based on smoking and health?

 MR. OLSON:  Yes.  And to the extent -- no, 

we are not saying that the Massachusetts unfair-
practices statute is preempted in all respects.  It's 
only when the statute, like a common law tort provision 
which the Court considered in Riegel, has application to 
the context of smoking and health.

 If the Court starts with the Morales case 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

through the Wolens case, through the Bates case, through 
the Riegel case, through the Reilly case, it's the 
application of the statute in the Reilly case.  It was a 
-- it was a statute of Massachusetts very much 
identical, virtually identical, to the Maine statute 
here.  And in the -- in the Reilly case the attorney 
general was attempting to apply the generalized, 
unfair-practice statute to the advertising of smoking 
and cigarettes near schools.

 This is a similar statute, which is 

attempted to be applied in the context of these labels 
and the advertising of cigarettes.  It's the application 
of a generalized statute.  This Court repeatedly said, 
and specifically said in the Riegel case, there is 
hardly any common law requirements which are 
requirements, the Court has repeatedly held -- and the 
Respondents don't dispute that; they specifically 
acknowledge it -- when it's the application of a general 
standard to the circumstances of the case.  That's where 
the pre-emption occurs.

 Congress didn't want to pre-empt general 

common law standards about fraud or misrepresentation or 
anything like that except in the context of the 
marketing --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, why -- why would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Congress -- I mean the difficulty that the other side 
raises here is just what Cipollone said.  I can 
understand totally why Congress would not want 50 States 
telling cigarette companies what to say about health and 
smoking or taking off pictures of the Marlboro ad.  I 
can understand that.

 What I can't understand is why Congress 

would want to get rid of, in this area, the traditional 
rule that advertising has to tell the truth.

 Now, what you said was you could end up with 
different applications of that in different States.  Of 
course, every national advertiser faces that situation 
at the moment.  Everyone who advertises across the 
nation could find deceptive -- anti-deception laws 
differently administered in different States.  Yet, 
they'd survive.  There is no evidence even that there is 
a problem.  So why would Congress want to get rid of 
that particular statute?

 MR. OLSON:  Well, the Court -- and this 

Court recently in Aetna v. Davila specifically said that 
pre-emption can't be decided based upon the label that 
the plaintiff puts in the complaint.

 Now, as I think every member of this Court 

would know, a creative plaintiff's lawyer can call a 
claim misrepresentation, willful misrepresentation, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

concealment, failure to warn, and so on and so forth. 
It's just a matter of how they change the label on the 
complaint.

 Now, what Congress didn't want -- and I just 

gave an example of a situation where Illinois decided 
that the descriptors, which are an issue in this case 
were not misleading; and it was not -- and they could 
continue to be used.

 What happened in this case in applying the 

Maine statute is a court decided that they were 
misleading and -- and couldn't be used.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But did the Illinois --

Illinois court reach the question whether the claim was 
pre -- pre-empted?  I think it firmly decided on the 
merits there was no fraud, if I understand what you 
said.

 MR. OLSON:  That's correct, and I'm not 

saying --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  So we must assume there 

was no pre-emption, because it wouldn't have reached the 
merits otherwise.

 MR. OLSON:  I -- I haven't got all of the 

specifics of that case; but what I felt -- I just simply 
meant -- but I think it's an example of what you said in 
your concurring opinion in Reilly:  That if you're going 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to conduct a national advertising campaign, it can't be 
governed by what a jury might decide in Des Moines 
versus what a jury might decide in Birmingham, Alabama. 
And --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  When it's not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is it the jury fracture? 

You said the attorney general could not stop, my 
example, "If you want to ingest less nicotine, buy our 
lights."  The attorney general could not proscribe that. 
So nothing that you're saying turns on it being the jury 
rather than the attorney general, does it?

 MR. OLSON:  Well, no, that's absolutely --

absolutely correct, Justice Ginsburg.  In fact, the 
panoply of this Court's decisions say that it doesn't 
matter whether it's a statute -- a generalized statute 
that's being applied or a common law standard that's 
being applied, and it does not matter whether it's an 
attorney general interpreting and enforcing general 
provisions -- I give you Morales and the Wolens 
situation -- or it's whether it's a common law tort 
action being brought by a plaintiff to submit a case to 
a jury a la Riegel.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So your position is 

essentially that Congress, as -- as far as the 
advertising of low or light, Congress empowered one 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

decisionmaker only and that's the FTC, and if they don't 
act then the cigarette companies can say anything they 
want about low tar and low nicotine?

 MR. OLSON:  Well, there is also -- I -- I 

think it doesn't -- it's not dispositive of the 
pre-emption case, but there's also the master settlement 
agreement that the tobacco companies entered into with 
the States, which gives the States a lot of power to 
enforce various different things.

 But I think that the point here is that, 

yes, Congress decided that it wanted one uniform source 
of regulation of advertising of cigarettes with respect 
to smoking and health.  Now --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Does the -- does the 
consent decree say anything about advertising low, 
light, those specifics?

 MR. OLSON:  The master settlement agreement?
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes.
 MR. OLSON:  I -- I don't -- I can't answer 

that question.  I don't know the answer to that 
question, but what I -- I believe that it would allow 
broad powers by the attorney generals.  But I have --
hasten to say, as I did at the beginning, because some 
parties entered into that master settlement agreement I 
don't think changes the Federal -- the congressional 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

intent is very clear.  It wanted the -- the statement --
Congress wanted the statements, certain statements, on 
cigarette packages.  It didn't want any confusion about 
what the marketing or promotion of cigarettes would be.

 I can't imagine, Justice Ginsburg, a clearer 

statement.  It says no requirement or prohibition in 
section 1334(b).  And in 1331 it says "comprehensive 
Federal programs that deal with cigarette labeling and 
advertising with respect to any relationship between 
smoking and health."

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But, Mr. Olson, isn't the 

problem that Congress was equally clear, or has at least 
been assumed to be equally clear, in a contrary line of 
reasoning that holds against you?  And that line of 
reasoning is this:  You agree -- everybody agrees --
that the FTC can represent -- it can regulate 
advertising and -- and supposed deception on matters 
that do affect -- relate to smoking and health.

 It is pretty much hornbook law at this stage 

of the game that the -- that the FTC's regulation of 
deceptive advertising does not exclude State regulation 
of deceptive advertising as a general proposition.  In 
fact, the FTC is very happy to have complementary State 
regimes.  That state of the law is just as clear.  It is 
at least as clear as you say the language is here. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Now, given the fact that the FTC can 

regulate advertising of cigarettes in -- in the -- in 
the respect that matters here, why don't we have to give 
some recognition to this complementary regime of State 
regulation, which, as a general proposition, survives 
it?

 MR. OLSON:  Well, the point --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  And all I'm saying is what 
we have here is, you say, a clear preemption provision. 
But we also have a clear regulatory regime which is at 
odds with that preemption provision, and presumably 
we've got to give some effect to that, too.

 MR. OLSON:  Well, the -- the statute deals 
with this to a degree in section 1336 by saving certain 
responsibilities.  But I think the more powerful answer 
is that the background principle, the Federal Trade 
Commission Act and Federal and State Trade -- Fair 
Practices Act, are a part of a national scheme just 
exactly as you said.  It's a background --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, it's part of a 

national scheme, but in practical terms you can say that 
on any subject matter that the FTC regulates.  And, 
nonetheless, the complementary State regimes of -- of 
regulating deception survive.

 So that the argument you are making here is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

an argument that can be made, I suppose, on every 
subject that the FTC touches.

 MR. OLSON:  Well, no.  As a matter of fact, 
I could not disagree more, Justice Souter.  That's the 
general background scheme.  Then Congress specifically 
addresses smoking and health in the advertising of 
cigarettes.  The same --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Your implied -- your 

implied preemption argument would certainly fall prey to 
that -- to that point.

 MR. OLSON:  Well, it -- we have -- I'd like 

to spend no time on the implied preemption argument --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Good idea.
 MR. OLSON:  -- because I think -- I think 

this is the -- the -- that Congress could not have been 
more clear.  And another answer to your question, 
Justice Souter, is the Airline Deregulation Act.

 You dealt -- you Court dealt with this in 

the Morales case and the Wolens case.  The -- you could 
have said the same thing there:  That there is a 
background principle against unfair --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Perhaps we did not think of 

it.

 MR. OLSON:  I don't -- I think that it's 

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

clear that, looking at the briefs in that case, that 
those very same arguments were made.  The same argument 
could have been made in the Riegel case with respect to 
devices.  The general principle that I'm making that I 
think Congress understands, and this Court has clearly 
understood, is that there is a background principle that 
the Federal Government is not pre-empting deceptive 
practice regulations except when Congress specifically 
says so.

 Now, one more point because I think the 

white light will come on:  the United States Government 
did not address in this case the express pre-emption 
argument.  But a few years ago, in the Reilly case, 
having to do with the very same statute, the Cigarette 
Labeling Act, the United States Government said that the 
labeling act pre-empted State laws concerning the 
content of cigarette advertising, the content of 
cigarette advertising.  That's what the government said 
then and the Acting Solicitor General during the 
argument in that case, in response to a question by one 
of your members of this Court, specifically said the --
the statute would pre-empt State laws about filters or 
the safety of a particular cigarette.  That was the 
position of the United States Government a couple of 
years ago and they have not changed. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Mr. Chief Justice, if I may reserve the 

balance of my time.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, 

Mr. Olson.

 Mr. Frederick.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS

 MR. FREDERICK:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice 

and may it please the Court:

 When Congress enacted the Labeling Act, the 

1969 Labeling Act, it gave no intention whatsoever to 
immunize cigarette makers for the false statements that 
they made in violation of anti-deception in the 
marketplace rules.  They didn't empower the FTC with any 
special rulemaking authority that applied industrywide, 
and in fact the FTC's enforcement authority with respect 
to individual companies was quite limited.  The argument 
that Philip --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Mr. Frederick, suppose that 
the FTC had adopted the rule that it considered in 1970 
and required that the tar and nicotine figures that were 
produced by the particular testing method that is at 
issue here to be placed on all cigarette ads and 
promotions; and then suppose that Maine issued a 
regulation requiring that all ads and promotions in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

State of Maine state that the Federal figures are 
misleading and should be disregarded.  Would that 
regulation be pre-empted?

 MR. FREDERICK:  That would be implied 

conflict pre-emption, and we would acknowledge that 
would be pre-empted.  The difference here --

JUSTICE ALITO:  What's the difference 

between that situation and this situation?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The difference here is that 

between a generally applicable rule that is specially 
targeted at the cigarette industry and a generally 
applicable rule against deception, upon which a fact 
finder would not need to make any special inquiry about 
smoking and health.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How is that 

consistent with what the Court said in the Riegel case 
where they said, and I'll quote:  "We have held that a 
provision pre-empting State requirements pre-empted 
common law duties"?  That's no suggestion that this is a 
distinction between a focused common law duty, which 
would be unusual anyway, and general common law duty.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Well, I have three 

responses, Mr. Chief Justice.  The first is that the 
text in Riegel was different; the purposes behind what 
Congress enacted in the medical device amendments were 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

different; and third, this Court twice, in both Reilly 
and in Cipollone, has looked at this exact statute and 
come to the opposite conclusion.

 First with respect to the text of the 

medical device amendments, there are several provisions 
of that act that are quite a bit broader than what the 
1969 Labeling Act --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You say Riegel 

wasn't referring to the particular text of any statue. 
It was making a general point.  The Court said:  We have 
held that a provision pre-empting State requirements, 
which is exactly what this one does, pre-empted common 
law duties.

 MR. FREDERICK:  And the result, Mr. Chief 

Justice, of virtually every one of this Court's 
pre-emption cases has been to look at the particular 
words of the statute to determine the scope of the 
pre-emption.  The Court did that in Bates.  It did that 
in Morales.  It did --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So as a general 
proposition -- I understand your position to be that 
this particular statute doesn't pre-empt the common law 
duties, but the distinction I thought you articulated in 
response to Justice Alito's question was that general 
common law duties are not pre-empted; specific tailored 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

ones are.

 MR. FREDERICK:  No.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You agree that a 

general common law duty can be pre-empted by a 
particular statute?

 MR. FREDERICK:  I do acknowledge that, 

Mr. Chief Justice.  But my point is that in the medical 
device amendments what Congress was getting at were 
things that were quite a bit broader and it had sweeping 
language.  It said not only to establish but also to 
continue in effect, with respect to a device, which 
relates to the safety or effectiveness of the device, or 
"to any other matter included in a requirement 
applicable to the device."
 By contrast --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So you're -- so 

you're saying that we should -- the difference in your 
case is that the language here is narrower.  It says "no 
statement relating to smoking or health."  I don't see 
how that language is narrower.

 MR. FREDERICK:  No, I think you're quoting 

1334(a) and the pre-emption provision at issue here, Mr. 
Chief Justice, is 1334(b) which says --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.  So 1334(b) 
says "no requirement or prohibition with respect to." 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Isn't that just as broad?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Well, no, it isn't, because 

the modifying term that's at issue in this case comes 
between the two points that you quoted, and that's the 
phrase "based on smoking and health."  Our contention 
here is that a generalized duty not to deceive is not a 
requirement based on smoking and health.  It's based on 
a duty not to deceive.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How do you tell --
how do you tell whether it's deceptive or not if you 
don't look at what the relationship is between smoking 
and health?  They have an advertisement that says light 
cigarettes are better for you than regular cigarettes. 
You have to know what the relationship is between 
smoking and health to determine whether that's 
deceptive.

 MR. FREDERICK:  No, you don't.  You have to 
look at two products and determine whether or not they 
are achieving the same yield of tar and nicotine that --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That's the 

relationship between smoking and health.

 MR. FREDERICK:  And the word "relate" does 
not appear in 1334(b), and that is crucial because this 
Court in Safeco v.  Burr defined the phrase "based upon" 
to mean but-for causation:  But for smoking and health, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

is there a requirement?  The words "related to" have 
been defined by this Court in numerous pre-emption 
cases, including Morales, Wolens, ERISA cases, to be 
among the most sweeping language that Congress can use 
to denote a connection.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Would you have -- would 

have you been satisfied if your complaint said this 
complaint does not seek any damages based on the link 
between smoking and health?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Well, the damages here, Mr. 

Justice Kennedy, are -- concern getting two products 
that are not different.  It's just like going to a car 
dealer and saying, I want a Ford and they --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Would you accept that 

amendment to your complaint, that the plaintiff does not 
seek any damages based on some link between smoking and 
health?

 MR. FREDERICK:  I think we would accept 

that, Justice Kennedy.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  How can you accept that and 

then expect to prove damages in the case?  You can 
accept it to this extent, it seems to me.  You can 
accept it in saying that what we are going to prove at 
step number one is that it is false to indicate that 
smoking light cigarettes will result in the ingestion of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

less tar and nicotine; and we know why you're saying 
that.  But in order to prove damages in your case, you 
would have to say:  People get hurt because there is a 
relationship between the ingestion of tar and nicotine 
and their health; and the same cause -- the same causal 
connection is therefore appropriate for -- for -- is 
therefore necessary in order to prove that people were 
hurt.

 MR. FREDERICK:  In fact in our case we are 

not proving health-related damages.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, but you're asking for 

injunctive relief, I guess.

 MR. FREDERICK:  No, we are not asking for 

injunctive relief.  We are asking damages for the 
difference in value between a product we thought we were 
buying and a product we actually bought.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  And the reason -- and the 

reason the product is of different value is that in fact 
it is dangerous to health, as opposed to -- or more 
dangerous or equally dangerous to health as opposed to 
less dangerous to health; so that at the causation stage 
you've still got to prove the link between causation and 
health.

 MR. FREDERICK:  I don't think so, Justice 

Souter.  I think all we have to prove is that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

products were different and that we relied materially on 
a misrepresentation about what product to use.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Do you think you could 
recover if the evidence showed simply that all your 
clients had the health of Olympic athletes?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  You do?
 MR. FREDERICK:  Yes, I do, because our 

damages here, Justice Souter --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  What would the harm be, 

sort of aesthetic?

 MR. FREDERICK:  If we bought a product 

thinking that it would be a safer product and it was 
not, and we would have quit smoking.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  If they are healthy as 

horses, you have no proof that it is not.

 MR. FREDERICK:  We're -- yes, we do, because 

the product is different.  If you buy a car thinking 
it's a Ford and it's a Yugo but it still drives, you 
still have a claim under the lemon laws for deceptive 
advertising.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But what if Yugos and Fords 

are worth the same amount of money?

 MR. FREDERICK:  That is an economic proof --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  But that's the thing here. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Unless you show that for some -- for some reason -- were 
light cigarettes sold as a premium?  Did they charge 
more for light cigarettes?

 MR. FREDERICK:  There is economic evidence, 
Justice Scalia, of a difference in value, and of course 
the pre-emption -- the issue here is not --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Answer my question.  Did 

they charge more for light cigarettes?

 MR. FREDERICK:  They did not charge more for 

light cigarettes.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  So what are your damages?
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes, what's the difference 

in value?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Economists have projected 

that if a person would have quit smoking and, therefore, 
not purchased light cigarettes or would have paid a 
different amount of money thinking it was getting a 
safer cigarette, there is an economic value --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Why would the person have 
decided to quit or not to quit?  The person would have 
made that decision based upon the health consequences.
 MR. FREDERICK:  Certainly.  And the point 

here about the advertising --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  So -- you are proving a 

point which depends upon the relationship between 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

smoking and health.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Justice Souter, I don't 

think that the liability requirement here, the rule of 
law that is being imposed under Bates -- what Bates said 
was that you look at the elements of the claim to 
determine whether or not the requirements are imposed by 
State law.  The requirement that we seek to impose here 
is the duty not to deceive --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, why couldn't you say 

exactly the same thing about a State mode seeks to 
protect consumers, and they have a -- they have a rule, 
and the rule is not only the cigarette company do you 
have to say cigarettes are dangerous to your health, you 
have to put skull and crossbones?  That's the state law.

 And you say why?  They say because we are 
trying to protect consumers.  And then you would be up 
here saying, they are not trying -- the duty there is 
not the duty to put the skull and crossbones.  It's the 
duty to protect consumers.

 Now, that argument would get nowhere, as you 
understand.  And they are saying you're making just that 
kind of argument here, except substitute the word 
"deception".

 MR. FREDERICK:  We are not making the same 

argument here for two reasons:  One is that the main 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

statute is not specially targeted at cigarette smoking. 
It's specially targeted at deception in the marketplace. 
Under your hypothetical it would be specially targeted 
at cigarette companies.  Under Reilly that would be 
preempted.

 Secondly, skull and crossbones I think --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Excuse me before you go.  I 
don't understand that.  It is not specially targeted at 
cigarettes and at the harmful health effects of 
cigarettes?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The statute we seek to 

invoke is a --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's a general statute but 
in Riegel we -- we took a general statute and looked at 
what its specific application in the case was.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Because the statute --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  You can't get away with 
just coming in and saying the general statute is an 
anti-deception statute.  Didn't we look at what the 
application of it was in the case?

 MR. FREDERICK:  You looked at it because the 

statute required you to look at it as applicable, and 
the purposes behind that Act were to give the FDA 
authority at the premarketing -- and purposes behind the 
medical device amendment were completely different.  The 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

FTC does not look at these marketing materials before 
the cigarette companies do that.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's what I want you to 

get you to talk about just for me for 30 seconds.  I 
can't deal with this conceptual thing.  It was hard for 
me to see it conceptually.  I can't understand -- and 
that may be enough to any other person here, but I can't 
understand somebody saying yes, this language is very 
absolute but it doesn't mean to cover everything that it 
literally applies to.  For example, it probably doesn't 
cover a requirement about workers smoking who put up 
billboards.  And another thing you say it doesn't cover 
is traditional anti-deception law.  That would have to 
do with the purpose of the statute not the text.

 I'm not making your argument for you.  I'm 
giving you an introduction, and I want you to give 30 
seconds dealing with the purposes that either says there 
is something to that line or there isn't.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Prior to the enactment of 
the 1969 Labeling Act, Congress confronted the spectra 
of states imposing warning requirements.  And the 
tobacco companies went to Congress and said, we do not 
want special burdens imposed on us.  We don't want 
special advantages, but please don't impose special 
burdens on the cigarette industry. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

And Congress said, we will wipe away the 

prospect of state imposing warnings by having a 
congressionally mandated warning on the cigarette packs 
and in cigarette advertising.  The Congress said nothing 
about having anti-deception laws be displaced by States.
 So that in, in the hair hypo that you gave, 

I think Mr. Olson would have to acknowledge that the 
cigarette companies were not asking at the time of the 
'69 Labeling Act to be free of anti-deception laws. 
They had been out for decades saying cigarette smoking 
cures the common cold, it makes the throat feel better, 
all sorts of health-related claims that were deceptive. 
And Congress was not trying to wipe that away.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Frederick, did I 

understand you earlier to say that your complaint did 
not seek injunctive relief?

 MR. FREDERICK:  We are not here seeking 

injunctive relief for this --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Page 42A of your 

amended complaint says you ask the Court to grant such 
injunctive relief as may be appropriate.

 MR. FREDERICK:  I misspoke, Mr. Chief 

Justice, with apologies to the Court.  Our claim here, 
though, principally is for damages.  And I would also 
point out that any injunction that would have been 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

ordered here would be superseded by the United States 
RICO case, where the District Court of the District of 
Columbia has already issued an injunction for the use of 
light cigarettes because Judge Kessler found in more 
than 4,000 findings of fact that Philip Morris had 
engaged in deception in the marketplace and findings of 
fact, beginning 2023 and following --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Frederick, are you 

saying that the consent decree -- because we have 
overtaken Judge Kessler's decision by consent decree, 
right and it has terms?  Does a -- does a consent decree 
terms allow state attorney generals to say don't 
advertise low?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The consent decree in the 
master settlement agreement does not address itself to 
specific issues with regard to light and low tar, to my 
knowledge.  The Kessler order does address the deception 
by lights and low tar, and the reason is temporal.

 When the master settlement agreement was 

entered into in the late '90s, the tobacco companies had 
not yet acknowledged publicly that they had been engaged 
in deception with respect to studies regarding low tar 
and light cigarette.  That came to light in 2002, and as 
a result of the discovery that occurred in the 
government's case and in State cases, the studies that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the cigarette companies knew for decades that there was 
no difference in the yield for low tar and light 
cigarettes came to light.

 And so, the master settlement agreement was 

not -- it had certain provisions about the way 
cigarettes could be marketed but -- but the Judge 
Kessler opinion, in the government's RICO case, actually 
makes findings of fact on this score.  And the complaint 
here essentially tracks the allegations in the 
government's.  All we seek to do is to provide a remedy 
to consumers that have been defrauded by Philip Morris 
over these many decades.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Could a state attorney 
general say under my authority to check against false 
and deceptive advertising, no cigarette company can 
advertise in this State low or light?

 MR. FREDERICK:  I think that would fall into 
the Reilly line of being preempted, because it would be 
specially targeted and there would be no room for a 
cigarette maker to say truthfully our product actually 
does yield lower and light.  So, it could not be a 
requirement based on deception.  It would have to be a 
requirement based on smoking and health under your 
hypothetical.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Weren't the claims that were 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

held to be preempted in Cipollone based on general 
common law duties?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Yes, they were.  Those --

the fraudulent neutralization of warning claim and the 
failure to warn claim were common law claims, Justice 
Alito, but the difference here is that in Cipollone the 
plurality plus the three Justices who joined Justice 
Blackmun's opinion and would have found no common law 
claims preempted.  Seven Justices found fraud claims 
that are virtually identical to ours not to be preempted 
because Congress lacked any intent to displace State 
laws concerning deception.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Mr. Frederick, if I take 
away from your oral argument that it is your position 
that this suit is not based on a link between smoking 
and health, I'm going to have difficulty in accepting 
your position in this entire case.  Do you have a 
secondary position that it is based on a link between 
smoking and health but it is subject to a general duty, 
that is, that supersedes or is quite in addition to 
labeling?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The requirement is what I 
would urge you to focus on, Justice Kennedy.  And the 
requirement that is being imposed here is not a 
requirement that has to do specifically with smoking and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

health.

 There is a second argument, which is that 

even under the application of that generalized duty, the 
jury here or the trial court would not be asked to look 
at the linkage between smoking and health.  It could 
simply say, have a scientist up there who says the yield 
of a light cigarette is no different than the yield of a 
regular cigarette.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Do I understand your basic 

argument to be that this statute is a prohibition 
against State warnings in either promotion or 
advertising different from the Federal one?

 MR. FREDERICK:  That's correct.  That was 

the general purpose of the statute.  There is language, 
of course, that --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  This specific quotation 
deals only with the contents of the advertising that 
might be described as warnings different from those in 
the Federal scheme.

 MR. FREDERICK:  That's absolutely correct, 

Justice Stevens.  And here what we are talking about 
with these light descriptors are comparisons between two 
products that, in fact, are not different.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Your answer to Justice 

Ginsburg's question was that the state attorney general 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

could not impose a regulation that said you must say 
that low tar cigarettes have as much nicotine as regular 
cigarettes.  If the attorney general couldn't do that, 
why could the plaintiff do it in his lawsuit?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Well, the attorney general 
could bring the same suit that we bring here, Justice 
Kennedy.  The difference is between a --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No.  The hypothetical was 
the attorney general requires this as a regulation under 
his authority.

 MR. FREDERICK:  And let me answer the 

hypothetical this way:  The attorney general can bring 
the lawsuit under the State deceptive practices act but 
cannot issue a generalized regulation targeted at the 
cigarette industry that takes truth completely out of 
the equation, because if another cigarette company comes 
up and says, "We actually have a light cigarette that is 
lower in tar," and we can prove it --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Suppose he wins the 
lawsuit -- he wins the lawsuit that it's false and 
deceptive to say "low."  Could he then have a regulation 
that says cigarette companies don't advertise "low" or 
"light"?

 MR. FREDERICK:  I think that's a much more 
difficult hypo, but I think the answer is the same and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that would be no, because a regulation would be -- would 
be specifically targeted at the industry and it would be 
based on smoking and health, not deception.

 In an injunctive situation, adjudicatory 
facts can evolve.  A company can come forward and say 
the facts have changed, circumstances have changed, 
please modify the injunction.  That can't happen when a 
generalized regulation is imposed that is specifically 
targeted at facts regardless of their truth or veracity.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, can you make that 
concrete?  What would change about the label "low" or 
"light"?

 MR. FREDERICK:  If the -- if the company 
came forward and said, "we redesigned our cigarette," 
and it in fact does yield less tar and nicotine under a 
scientifically verifiable test, that would be -- that 
would run afoul of the regulation, but it would not run 
afoul of the general duty not to deceive.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, 

Mr. Frederick.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: 

Mr. Hallward-Driemeier.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS 

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Thank you, 
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  It will not surprise 
you that my first question is, why did the United States 
not address the express pre-emption argument and, 
second, what is the position of the United States on the 
express pre-emption argument?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Your Honor, the 

United States did not participate on the question of the 
scope of the express pre-emption provision in Cipollone, 
and to a large extent the express pre-emption question 
in this case is what was the meaning of the decision in 
Cipollone.  And so that is of less interest to the 
United States than certainly the second question 
presented, which has to do with the FTC's own authority 
and its exercise of that authority.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  All right.  Well, 

that's why you didn't address it.  Now, what is the 
position of the United States?  It's a statute that is 
directed to an area in which the Federal Government has 
an extensive interest in regulation, and I would have 
thought there'd be a position on that.  It is logically 
antecedent to the implied pre-emption.  You would 
consider whether there is express pre-emption before 
implied pre-emption. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Your Honor, the 
United States has not taken a position on the bottom 
line of the first question presented.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Petitioner says you have in 

an earlier case.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  I don't believe 

that the position that the United States stated in 
Reilly is dispositive of the first question presented in 
this case.  But, again, that doesn't mean that the brief 
that the United States has filed with respect to implied 
pre-emption is not relevant.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, it's not 

anymore.  I understood -- I understood Mr. Olson to give 
up on implied pre-emption in his opening argument.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Implied pre-emption 

is all that you address, right?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  But we --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So it should be 

pretty easy for you to win on that.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  I would hope so. 

Thank you.

 But we also address a question that is 

common to the two questions presented, and that is an 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

argument that the Petitioners make with respect to 
implied pre-emption, but they also make it with respect 
to express pre-emption, and that is -- and, Justice 
Ginsburg --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Does the FTC at this point 

in 2008 have an opinion about whether the tar and 
nicotine figures that are produced by this testing 
method are meaningful or misleading?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, as Your Honor 

is aware, we submitted a -- a supplemental authority 
letter that in July of this year the Commission issued a 
request for comment on a proposal to rescind its 
guidance with respect to the tar and nicotine test 
results, precisely because of concern that they are 
misleading due to the evidence that has developed about 
the incidence of compensation.  That was not believed at 
the time that the Commission issued its guidance back in 
1966 and '67 to present a significant problem.  But it 
is evident now.  The scientific community indicates and 
certainly the findings of fact in the RICO case are that 
the -- that the tobacco companies have known since 1967 
that in fact compensation is nearly complete, and for 
that reason, the tar and nicotine yields via the 
Cambridge test method are not indicative of the yield to 
a true human smoker.  And for that reason, it proposed 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to withdraw.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Would it be -- would it be 

unfair to say that for quite sometime now, nearly 40 
years, the FTC has passively approved the placement of 
these tar and nicotine figures in advertisement?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  With respect to the 

-- I want first to take issue with the question of 
"approved," because I think that it -- it draws an 
analogy to the FDA context, to Riegel and the like, and 
that is not the nature of what the Federal Trade 
Commission does.  It doesn't stand --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, you passed a rule to 

require it, did you not?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  We proposed a rule 

to require the disclosure of tar and nicotine --

JUSTICE ALITO:  And you withdrew that after 

the companies voluntarily agreed to place the 
information on the ads --

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  That's correct.
 JUSTICE ALITO:  -- and entered into consent 

decrees with other companies requiring them to put 
information in their ads.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  No.  The consent 
decrees did not require them to put the information in 
their ads.  It said that it would be deceptive to make 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

claims about the tar and nicotine content of the 
cigarettes without expressing, in milligrams, what the 
yield was per the Cambridge test method.  But that's a 
very different thing.  It's a prohibition.  They were 
ordered to cease and desist making claims about tar and 
nicotine content without giving the consumer the benefit 
of the yield figures.  But the Commission has never --
specifically at issue in this case are the descriptors 
"light" or "lower in tar."  In 1987, the Commission 
issued a notice in which it said these terms are are not 
defined by Federal law.  They asked whether there should 
be --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Was there a different 

between saying "light" and saying "lower in tar" in 
accordance with the Cambridge testing method?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Yes, Your Honor, 

because the -- the "light," on its own, much more 
conveys the impression to the consumer that this is the 
yield to the consumer himself, the actual human smoker, 
and in fact that was why the --

JUSTICE ALITO:  The FTC's position seems to 
me incomprehensible.  If these figures are meaningless, 
then you should have prohibited them -- are misleading, 
you should have prohibited them a long time ago.  And 
you've created this whole problem by, I think, passively 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

approving the placement of these figures on the -- on --
in the advertisements.  And if they are misleading, then 
you have misled everybody who's bought those cigarette 
for a long time.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  They -- whether 

they are or are not misleading depends upon the 
incidence of compensation.  At the time the Commission 
issued its guidance in 1966 and '67, the HEW report was 
that compensation was not expected to be a problem.  It 
was not believed to be a problem.  Beginning in 1983, 
when in light of the Barclay's case in which it was 
determined that a particular cigarette, the yield 
according to the test method had nothing to do with 
yield to an actual consumer, the FTC started to inquire 
about this.

 But the Petitioners, although they have 

known since 1967 about the incidence of compensation, 
failed to disclose that information to the Commission. 
They have failed to -- they have refused to give them 
the benefit of their insights, their own studies.  The 
Commission has asked --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  The Commission -- when did 
the Commission know of this stuff?  I had a case when I 
was on the Court of Appeals, so it had to be before 1984 
involving so-called lip drape --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  You're right.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  --

by which the smoker 

covers up the little holes that bring in some fresh air.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  In 1978 --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's been general knowledge 

for a long time, and the FTC has done nothing about it.
 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  There has been a 

question.  In 1978, the Commission issued a notice 
requesting comment about whether lip drape in fact 
occluded the holes that dilute the concentration of the 
air, and the tobacco companies did not respond to that, 
even though they had their own studies showing that it 
was a problem.  So it is -- it is true that the 
Commission has only now issued the notice proposing to 
withdraw its earlier guidance; but the Petitioners 
themselves should not be able to benefit from their own 
misleading of the Commission.

 But again, I think it's more fundamental 

than that, is that their arguments rely upon a 
misconception of what the Commission does.  As Justice 
Souter noted, it is Supreme Court law the Commission 
does not supplant State law; it acts cooperatively with 
State law.  The Commission does not act as a gatekeeper 
like FDA in approving things.  It acts as a law 
enforcement agency.  It goes after fraud when it is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

aware of it.  But that is not to the exclusion of State 
law enforcement agencies or other Federal law 
enforcement agencies.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Can I ask a question?  I 

plan to go back and see what the Government said in 
the -- in the case that Petitioner asserts you have 
effectively supported his position on -- on express 
pre-emption.  I plan to go back and read it.  Assuming I 
agree with him rather than you, has the government's 
position changed from what it was then?  As far as you 
know, is the government's position still the same, the 
position that you delicately did not bring to our 
attention?

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  This is in the Reilly 

case.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  The Reilly case.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes.  In Reilly.  I haven't 

read the brief there, I must say.  But suppose I agree 
with Petitioner.  Can I assume --

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Of course --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  And do you assume that it's 

--

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  The position of the 
United States as stated in the Reilly case was that the 
express guarantee provision did not pre-empt a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

regulation of the nature in that case.  It was our 
position that that, because it was --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  No, I'm not asking about --

I'll figure that out on my own.  Trust me.  I can 
probably figure that out.  But once I have figured it 
out, can I assume that that is still the government's 
position --

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, I --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- whatever it is?
 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, I would think 

that we would need to revisit the question in light of 
this Court's holding in Reilly, in light of the 
additional precedents that there have been over the last 
decade or whatever it's been since that decision was 
issued.  So --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You have no idea which 

direction that would lead?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  We have not taken a 
position on the first -- on the bottom line of the first 
question presented.  Although as I say --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I'm going to hold you to 

your last position, just -- just for fun.

 (Laughter.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Olson, you have four minutes remaining. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON

 ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS

 MR. OLSON:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. 
We haven't given up the implied pre-emption argument, 
but I --

(Laughter.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You just didn't want 

to argue it.

 MR. OLSON:  I -- we feel that we explained 
it very thoroughly in our briefs, and I thought knowing 
that the time was limited I thought we should focus on 
the strongest argument I think by any stretch of the 
imagination, when Congress has spoken directly.

 Now, first of all, with respect to what the 
Solicitor General on behalf of the United States says, 
and this is in response to the point that Justice Scalia 
was just addressing -- page 1 of the Reilly brief, the 
Attorney General is responsible for enforcing the 
Labeling Act.  So it is the government's responsibility, 
according to them, to enforce the Labeling Act.

 Then on pages 8 and 9 of their brief, 

distinguishing between the location of the billboards in 
that case and other things that would be pre-empted, 
pages 8 and 9, the Government said the Labeling Act 
preempts State laws concerning the content of cigarette 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

advertising with respect to smoking and health.  And the 
Acting Solicitor General on page 25 of the transcript of 
the argument that day in this case was asked that 
question, what is pre-empted?  And she said it pre-empts 
State law claims about filters or the safety of a 
particular cigarette.  That is this case.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Isn't the point, it doesn't 
pre-empt rules about location; it pre-empts rules about 
content?

 MR. OLSON:  That was the government's point.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's the government's 

position.  Now, if that's their position, isn't it just 
one additional step to say depending on what the history 
of the statute is, that it pre-empts regulations about 
content that don't have to do with lying about the 
content?

 MR. OLSON:  It has to do according to what 
Congress said about the content of the advertising and 
the promotion of cigarettes; that's what this case is 
about when it has to do with smoking and health.

 Now, my opponent seems to run away, in 
answer to your question, about what if we take out 
smoking and health from their complaint?  Well, they 
can't take out smoking.  That is everywhere in the 
complaint.  I asked the Court to sit down and compare 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the labeling statute with the complaint.  And the words 
are indistinguishable, and they say over and over again 
and on page 4A of -- then Mr. Frederick's saying well, 
all they want is economic damages.  They are really 
not -- they are just concerned about they got one 
cigarette and they wanted to get another cigarette. 
Page 4A, this is the way the Court of Appeals understood 
it.  This is page 4A of the petition appendix:  the 
plaintiffs explain that the relative levels of these 
substances bear on a reasonable consumer's decision on 
which cigarette to purchase, because consumers 
understand that reducing the quantities of tar and 
nicotine in cigarettes reduces their adverse health 
effects.  That is what this case is all about.

 Now, I will just conclude in this way.  The 

statute in the language of this Court in the Reilly 
case, uses "sweeping language."  The language is every 
bit as sweeping as the language in the airline 
deregulation act that uses the phrase relates to, I 
submit.

 So there is three requirements.  Either --

the statute prohibits, any and it uses the phrase "any," 
you can't get more expansive than that; and it uses the 
word "no" requirements or prohibition.  The Court has 
dealt with requirements and prohibition in Reilly, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Cipollone, Bates, Wolens, Riegel.  The statute that we 
are talking about here in this case is the same statute 
essentially that it was dealing with in Reilly.  It's 
the State Unfair Practices Act.  It was 
Massachusetts/Maine; but I compared the statutes side by 
side.  They essentially the same.

 Is the requirement based upon smoking and 

health?  Well, the complaint specifically says so.  The 
relief is based upon the relationship between smoking 
and health and is it in promotion or advertising of 
tobacco?  Again, they've said that over and over again. 
I submit that the statute could not be more clear.  This 
particular complaint seeks to impose a regulation --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Isn't it correct that your 

argument requires us to reject the fraud analysis in 
Cipollone?

 MR. OLSON:  Yes.  I believe it does. 

However, Justice Stevens, I believe when you talked 
about in that -- the plurality opinion, you talked about 
minimizing, reducing, negating the effect of the warning 
labels.  That's also this complaint.  This as a 
complaint is identical so what you were referring to on 
page 527 of Cipollone.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, 

Mr. Olson.  The case is submitted. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

(Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

A 

abated 9:18 
able 48:16 
above-entitled 

1:11 55:2 

absolute 34:9 
absolutely 17:12 

17:13 39:20 

accept 28:14,18 

28:20,22,23 

accepting 38:16 
achieving 27:19 
acknowledge 
14:18 24:5 
26:6 35:7 

acknowledged 

36:21 

act 4:25 7:10 8:3 

11:6 18:2 
20:17,18 21:17 
22:15,16 23:10 
23:11 25:6,7 
33:23 34:20 
35:9 40:13 
48:23 51:19,20 
51:24 53:19 
54:4 

Acting 22:19 

52:2 

action 4:4 17:21 
acts 48:22,24 
actual 46:19 

47:14 

Act's 3:11 
ad 4:2 15:5 
addition 38:20 
additional 50:13 

52:13 

address 22:12 
36:15,17 42:5 
42:18 43:17,24 

addresses 21:6 
addressing 6:10 

adjudicatory 

51:17 

41:4 

administered 

15:15 

adopted 23:20 
ads 23:23,25 
45:18,22,25 

advantages 

34:24 

adverse 53:13 
advertise 8:21 
36:13 37:16 
40:22 

air 48:3,11 
airline 12:8 

21:17 53:18 

AL 1:3,6 
Alabama 17:3 
Alito 23:19 24:7 

37:25 38:6 
44:5 45:2,12 
45:16,20 46:13 
46:21 

advertisement  Alito's 25:24 

27:12 45:5 

advertisements 

47:2 

allegations 37:9 
allergic 7:15 
allow 18:21 

36:12 

advertiser 15:12 
advertises 15:13  Altria 1:3 3:4 
advertising 4:10  amended 4:19 
4:21,22 5:1 
35:20 

5:7,15,20 6:15 
7:11 8:5,11,13 
8:14 9:24 10:9  amendment 
28:15 33:25 
10:20 11:16,23 
12:3,9 13:3,14  amendments 
24:25 25:5 
14:8,12 15:9 
26:8 
17:1,25 18:12 
18:15 19:9,17 
19:21,22 20:2 
21:6 22:17,18 
30:21 31:23 
35:4 37:15 
39:12,17 52:1 
52:18 54:10 
aesthetic 30:11 
Aetna 15:20 
affect 19:18 
afoul 41:17,18 
agencies 49:2,3 
agency 48:25 
ago 22:13,25 

analogy 45:9 
analysis 54:15 
answer 5:18 6:8 
6:19,25 18:19 
18:20 20:15 
21:16 31:7 
39:24 40:11,25 
52:22 

answered 10:23 
antecedent 

amicus 1:21 2:8 
amount 30:23 

42:23 

31:17 

46:24 

agree 19:15 26:3 

49:9,18 

anti-deception 
15:14 23:13 
33:19 34:13 
35:5,9 

agreed 45:17 
agreement 18:7 

anymore 43:13 
18:17,24 36:15  anyway 24:21 
36:19 37:4 
agrees 19:15 
aimed 8:13 

apologies 35:23 
Appeals 47:24 

53:7 

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

appear 4:10,18 
4:25 5:1 27:23 
APPEARAN... 

appendix 4:20 

1:14 

53:8 

46:11 47:21
52:3,25

asking 13:16
29:11,13,14
35:8 50:3
asserts 49:6

applicable 24:10  Assistant 1:19
associated 4:17
assume 16:19

24:12 26:14 
33:22 

application 

49:19,21 50:6 
assumed 19:13
13:23 14:3,12 
14:18 33:15,20  Assuming 49:8
39:3 

athletes 30:5
attempted 9:1

applications 

15:11 

applied 14:11 

17:16,17 23:15 

applies 34:10 
apply 14:7 
applying 16:9 
appropriate 
29:6 35:21 

approved 45:4,8 
approving 47:1 

48:24 

attempting 8:9

attention 4:21

14:11

14:7

49:13

attorney 5:5,6,9
5:14,19 6:4,20 
14:6 17:7,9,11
17:18 18:22
36:12 37:13
39:25 40:3,5,9
40:12 51:18
authority 7:20

23:15,16 33:24 
37:14 40:10
42:15,16 44:10 

area 15:8 42:20 
argue 51:8 
argument 1:12 
2:2,10 3:3,6 
5:5 10:20,21 
10:22,23 12:22  aware 44:10
20:25 21:1,9 
21:12 22:2,13 
22:20 23:6,17 
32:20,22,25
34:15 38:14
39:2,10 41:24 
42:5,7 43:14 
44:1 51:1,4,12
52:3 54:15

3:6 51:1

a.m 1:13 3:2 

49:1

55:1

B 1:15 2:3,11 

B

Bacall 10:15
back 8:22 44:17 

arguments 22:2

articulated

48:19

25:23

aside 9:20 10:8 

10:19

asked 39:4

49:5,8

background

11:4 20:16,19
21:5,21 22:6 

baffling 9:17
balance 23:2
Barclay's 47:11

Official - Subject to Final Review 

based 3:16 4:9 
7:24 8:19 9:4 
12:24 13:4,7 
13:18 15:21 
27:5,7,7,24 
28:8,16 31:21 
37:22,23 38:1 
38:15,18 41:3 
54:7,9 

brief 11:7 43:9 

49:18 51:17,21 

briefs 22:1 

51:10 

bring 40:6,6,12 

48:3 49:12 
broad 18:22 

27:1 

broader 25:6 

basic 39:9 
Bates 14:1 25:18  brought 4:5 

26:9 

32:4,4 54:1 

bear 53:10 
beginning 4:18 

4:19 18:23 
36:7 47:10 

behalf 1:15,17 

17:21 

build 9:12 
burdens 34:23 

34:25 

burg 5:19 
Burr 27:24 

1:21 2:4,6,8,12  but-for 27:25 
3:7 23:7 41:25  buy 5:12,13 6:22 
51:2,15 

17:8 30:18 
buying 29:16 

46:8 47:11,23 
49:6,15,16,24 
50:1 51:23 
52:3,6,19 
53:14,17 54:2 
54:25 55:1 

cases 6:13 25:16 

28:3,3 36:25 

causal 29:5 
causation 27:25 

29:21,22 

cause 11:22 29:5 
causes 7:15 
cease 46:5 
certain 11:12 
19:2 20:14 
37:5 

certainly 4:14 

7:6 21:9 31:22 
42:14 44:20 

challenges 3:12 
change 16:2 

41:11 

clients 30:5 
cold 35:11 

33:1,4 34:2,25 
35:3,4,8,10 
36:23 37:1,15  Columbia 36:3 
come 5:21 22:11 
37:20 39:7,8 
40:15,16,17,22 
41:14 47:3,12 
51:25 52:6 
53:6,6,11 

25:3 41:5 
comes 27:3 

40:16 

coming 33:18 
comment 44:12 

48:9 

commerce 11:14 

cigarettes 3:13 
3:14,16,24 4:3 
4:16,24 5:8,10 
5:12,13,22,24  Commission 
7:19 20:17 
6:15,22 8:6,12 
44:11,17 45:11 
8:13,22 11:13 
46:7,9 47:7,18 
14:9,12 18:12 
47:21,22,23 
19:4 20:2 21:7 
48:8,14,17,20 
27:13,13 28:25 
48:21,23 
31:2,3,8,10,16 
32:13 33:9,10 
36:4 37:3,6 
40:2,3 46:2 
52:19 53:13 
Cipollone 8:17 
8:18 9:16,21 
13:10 15:2 
25:2 38:1,6 
42:10,13 54:1 
54:16,23 

14:15,22 17:16 
17:20 24:19,20 
24:21 25:12,22
25:25 26:4 
35:11 38:2,5,8
43:25 

common 13:22 

community

companies

44:19 

believe 18:21 

43:6 54:17,18 
believed 44:16 

47:10 

benefit 46:6 
47:20 48:16 
better 27:13 

35:11 

billboards 6:18 

34:12 51:22 
Birmingham 

17:3 

bit 25:6 26:9 

53:18 

Blackmun's 

38:8 

blue 11:7 
bodies 9:12 
bottom 43:2 

50:19 

bought 29:16 
30:12 47:3 

Breyer 8:16,24 

9:4,11 10:4 
11:4 12:6 
14:25 32:9 
34:3 52:7,11 

C

C 1:17 2:1,5 3:1 

23:6

call 15:24
Cambridge

44:24 46:3,15
campaign 17:1
car 28:12 30:18 
carton 5:10,15
case 4:7,7 6:5,17 

7:1,8,9 9:21 
12:1,1,2,7,7,11
12:13,15 13:25 
14:1,1,2,2,3,6
14:14,19 16:6 
16:9,23 17:21 
18:6 21:19,19
22:1,3,12,13
22:20 24:16
26:18 27:3
28:21 29:2,9
33:15,20 36:2 
36:25 37:7
38:17 42:12
43:5,9 44:20 

circumstances 

4:12 14:19 
41:6 

changed 22:25 
41:6,6 49:10 
changes 18:25 
charge 31:2,8,9 
check 37:14 
Chief 3:3,8,20 
4:7 23:1,3,8 
24:15,23 25:8 
25:14,20 26:3 
26:7,16,23,24 
27:9,20 35:14 
35:19,22 41:19 
41:22 42:2,3 
42:17 43:12,16  claims 3:10 
43:19 50:24 
51:3,7 54:24 
cigarette 3:11 

10:2 15:25 
16:13 30:20 
32:5 35:23 
38:4,5 

claim 3:21 10:2 

4:11 5:11 7:16 
10:11,16 11:16 
15:4 18:2 19:3 
19:8 22:14,17 
22:18,23 23:12 
23:23 24:11 
31:18 32:12 

clear 4:14 7:14 
19:1,12,13,24 
19:25 20:9,10 
21:16 22:1 
54:12 

clearer 19:5 
clearly 22:5 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

10:11 15:4 
18:2,7 23:17 
33:4 34:2,22 
35:8 36:20 
37:1 40:22 
44:21 45:17,21
48:11 

company 32:12 

37:15 40:16 
41:5,13

39:22 

compensation

44:16,22 47:7 
47:9,17

complaint 3:12 
4:15,19,22,23 

35:12 37:25 
38:5,9,9 46:1,5  compare 52:25 
compared 54:5 
52:5 
comparisons

5:2 8:12 9:18 
10:1 15:22 
16:3 28:7,8,15 
35:15,20 37:8 
52:23,25 53:1 
54:8,13,21,22 
complementary 
19:23 20:4,23 
complete 44:22 
completely 9:2 
33:25 40:15 

comprehensive 

concealment 

conceivably 

19:7 

16:1 

4:12 

concentration 

48:10 

conceptual 34:5 
conceptually 

concerning 

22:16 38:12 
51:25 

conclude 6:24 

53:15 

conclusion 25:3 
concrete 5:8 

41:11 

concurring 

condition 7:13 
conduct 17:1 
conflict 24:5 
confronted 

34:20 

confusing 9:17 
11:15,17,23 
confusion 19:3 
Congress 3:15 

3:18 8:25 10:7 
11:5,7,10 12:4 

concern 28:11 

31:21 

concerned 10:10  considered 

34:6 

44:14 

53:5 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

contrary 19:13 
14:21 15:1,3,7 
contrast 26:15 
15:17 16:4 
17:24,25 18:11  converse 13:12 
conveys 46:18 
19:2,12 21:5 
cooperatively 
21:15 22:5,8 
23:10 24:25 
26:8 28:4 
34:20,22 35:1 
35:4,13 38:11 
51:13 52:18 
congressional 

correct 16:17 

48:22 

17:13 39:13,20 
45:19 54:14 
counsel 50:24 
counted 5:1 
couple 22:24 
course 15:12 
31:5 39:15 
49:20 

damages 28:8 
28:10,16,21 
29:2,10,14 
30:9 31:11 
35:24 53:4 
dangerous 

31:21 36:10 
42:12 50:14 
53:10 

decisionmaker 

18:1 

decisions 9:19 

10:12 29:19,20 
29:20,21 32:13  declares 11:7 
DAVID 1:17 2:5  decree 18:15 

17:14 

Davila 15:20 
day 8:22 12:13 

23:6 

52:3 

congressionally 

18:25 

35:3 

connected 4:13 
connection 12:8 

12:14 28:5 
29:6 

consent 18:15 
36:9,10,11,14 
45:20,23 

consequences 

consider 42:24 

13:23 23:20 

consistent 24:16 
consumer 46:6 

46:18,19 47:14 

consumers 

11:12 32:11,16 
32:19 37:11 
53:11 

consumer's 

53:10 

deal 19:8 34:5 
dealer 28:13 
court 1:1,12 3:9  dealing 34:17 

54:3 

53:25 

39:17 

deals 20:13 

3:18 6:5,16 
9:20 10:24 
11:8 12:6,10 
12:12,15 13:23  dealt 21:18,18 
13:25 14:13,16 
decade 50:14 
15:19,20,23 
16:10,13 21:18  decades 35:10 
22:5,21 23:9 
24:16 25:1,10 
25:18 27:24 
28:2 35:20,23 
36:2 39:4 42:2 
47:24 48:21 
52:25 53:7,16 
53:24 

32:8 41:18 
deception 4:2 
19:17 20:24 
24:12 32:23 
33:2 36:6,17 
36:22 37:22 
38:12 41:3 

deceive 27:6,8 

37:1,12 

courts 6:23 
Court's 4:21 
17:14 25:15 
50:12 

36:9,10,11,14 
decrees 45:21,24 
defined 27:24 
28:2 46:11 

defrauded 37:11 
degree 20:14 
delicately 49:12 
denote 28:5 
Department 

1:20 

depending 

52:13 

depends 31:25 

47:6 

deregulation 
12:8 21:17 
53:19 
Des 17:2 
described 39:18 
descriptors 
11:25 16:6 
39:22 46:8 

desist 46:5 
deceptive 5:7,15  despite 4:17 

5:20 7:20 10:9  determine 25:17 
10:19 15:14 
27:15,18 32:6 
19:21,22 22:7 
27:10,16 30:20 
35:12 37:15 
40:13,21 45:25  device 24:25 

developed 44:15 

determined 

47:12 

decide 9:22 17:2 

17:3 

decided 12:13 
15:21 16:5,10 
16:14 18:11 
31:20 

decides 13:2 
decision 9:21 

25:5 26:8,11 
26:12,14 33:25 

devices 12:12 

22:4 

differ 4:7 
difference 24:6 
24:7,9 26:17 
29:15 31:5,12 

11:19,20 16:25  contains 13:8 

cover 34:9,11,12 

content 7:2,8,11  covers 48:3 

22:17,17 46:1 
46:6 51:25 
52:9,15,16,18 
contention 27:5 
contents 39:17 
context 12:14 

created 46:25 
creative 15:24 
crossbones 

32:14,18 33:6 

crucial 27:23 
cures 35:11 

13:24 14:11,23  curiae 1:22 2:9 
45:9 

continue 16:8 

26:11 

D

D 3:1

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

37:2 38:6 40:7  drives 30:19 
drug 7:13,15 

different 10:10 

duties 24:19 
25:13,23,25 
38:2 

11:21,22 15:11  due 44:15 
15:11,15 18:9 
24:24 25:1 
28:12 29:18 
30:1,18 31:17 
33:25 39:7,12 
39:18,23 46:4 
46:13 

duty 7:16 24:20 

24:21 26:4 
27:6,8 32:8,17 
32:18,19 38:19 
39:3 41:18 
D.C 1:8,15,17 

15:15 

differently 

difficult 40:25 
difficulty 15:1 

38:16 

dilute 48:10 
directed 42:20 
direction 50:17 
directly 51:13 
disagree 21:4 
disclaim 9:25 
disclose 7:17 

47:18 

disclosure 45:15 
disconnect 4:2 
discovery 36:24 
displace 38:11 
displaced 35:5 
dispositive 18:5 

43:8 

dispute 14:17 
disregarded 

dissenting 7:7,9 

24:2 

11:21 

distinction 

24:20 25:23 
distinguishing 
11:19 51:22 
District 36:2,2 
diverse 11:17,23 
DOUGLAS 

1:19 2:7 41:24 
down-play 9:25 
drape 47:25 

48:9 

draws 45:8 

1:21 

E 
E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 35:15 
43:5 48:15 

easily 9:18 
easy 43:20 
economic 30:24 
31:4,18 53:4 

Economists 

31:14 

economy 11:15 
effect 6:8 20:12 

26:11 54:20 

effectively 49:7 
effectiveness 

26:12 

effects 33:9 

53:14 

eight 9:12 
either 13:13 
34:17 39:11 
53:21 

elements 32:5 
empower 23:14 
empowered 

17:25 

enacted 23:10 

24:25 

enactment 

34:19 

enforce 18:9 

51:20 

enforcement 

23:16 48:25 
49:2,3 

enforcing 17:18 

51:18 

engaged 36:6,21 
entered 18:7,24 

36:20 45:20 
entire 38:17 
environment 

7:4 

explained 51:9 
explicitly 3:15 
express 12:21 
22:12 42:5,7 
42:10,11,24 
44:3 49:7,25 
expressed 12:5 
expressing 46:2 
expressly 11:2 

12:9 

equally 19:12,13  extensive 42:21 
extent 9:7 13:19 

29:20 

equation 40:16 
ERISA 28:3 
ESQ 1:15,17,19 

2:3,5,7,11 

essentially 17:24 

28:22 42:11 

F

faces 15:12
fact 3:24 4:23 

37:9 54:3,6 

establish 26:10 
ET 1:3,6 
everybody 
19:15 47:3 
evidence 7:14 
15:16 30:4 
31:4 44:15 
evident 44:19 
evolve 41:5 
exact 25:2 
exactly 20:19 
25:12 32:10 
example 3:12 
5:21 6:2,20 
8:20,21 16:5 
16:24 17:8 
34:10 

examples 5:8 
exclude 6:8 

19:21 

exclusion 49:1 
Excuse 10:4 

33:7 

exercise 42:16 
expansive 53:23 
expect 28:21 
expected 47:9 
explain 12:19 

53:9 

8:20 9:2 11:21 
17:13 19:23
20:1 21:3
23:16 24:12
29:9,18 36:5,7 
37:8 39:23
41:15 44:20,22
46:20 48:9

facts 4:6 41:5,6 

41:9

failed 47:18,19
failure 16:1 38:5 
Fair 20:17
fall 21:9 37:17 
false 5:15 7:24 
8:19,24 9:2 
10:9,9 12:23 
13:6,17 23:12 
28:24 37:14
40:20

far 17:24 49:10 
FDA 33:23 45:9 

48:24

Federal 7:19
18:25 19:8
20:16,17 22:7 
24:1 39:12,19
42:20 45:10
46:11 49:2

feel 35:11 51:9 

felt 16:23 
figure 50:4,5 
figured 50:5 
figures 23:21 

24:1 44:7 45:5 
46:7,22 47:1 

filed 43:10 
filters 22:22 

52:5 

find 15:14 
finder 24:13 
findings 36:5,6 

37:8 44:20 
firmly 16:14 
first 3:4 24:23 

25:4 42:4 43:3 
43:8 45:7 
50:19,19 51:14 

focus 38:23 

51:11 

focused 7:8 

10:17 11:21 
24:20 

focusing 7:10 
following 36:7 
forbidding

10:14 

Ford 28:13 

30:19 

Fords 30:22 
forth 16:1 
fortunately 11:5 
forward 41:5,14
found 7:13,22

9:17 36:4 38:8 
38:9 

four 8:17 50:25 
fracture 17:6 
fraud 14:22 
16:15 38:9 
48:25 54:15 

fraudulent 38:4 
Frederick 1:17 
2:5 23:5,6,8,19
24:4,9,22
25:14 26:2,6
26:21 27:2,17 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

government's 
36:25 37:7,10 
49:9,11 50:6 
51:19 52:10,11 

40:5,9,12 
41:18 48:5 
51:15,18 52:2 
generalized 14:7 

27:22 28:10,18 
29:9,13,24 
30:6,8,12,17 
30:24 31:4,9 
31:14,22 32:2 
32:24 33:11,16 
33:21 34:19 
35:14,17,22 
36:8,14 37:17 
38:3,13,22 
39:13,20 40:5 
40:11,24 41:13  generating 9:17  guidance 44:13 
41:20,21 

grant 35:20 
Group 1:3 3:4 
grow 8:22 
growing 9:8 
guarantee 49:25 
guess 29:12 
guessing 10:5 

14:13 17:15 
27:6 39:3 
40:14 41:8 
generally 4:8 

generals 18:22 

24:10,11 

36:12 

Frederick's 53:3 
free 35:9 
fresh 48:3 
FTC 18:1 19:16 
19:23 20:1,22 
21:2 23:14,20 
34:1 44:5 45:4 
47:14 48:6 
FTC's 19:20 
23:16 42:15 
46:21 
full 7:19 
fun 50:22 
fundamental 

48:18 

funny 8:21 
G 

G 3:1 
game 19:20 
gatekeeper 

48:23 

general 1:20 5:5 
5:6,9,14,18,20 
6:4,20 14:7,18 
14:21 17:7,9 
17:11,18,18 
19:22 20:5 
21:5 22:4,19 
24:21 25:10,20 
25:24 26:4 
33:13,14,18 
37:14 38:1,19 
39:14,25 40:3 

getting 26:8 
28:11 31:17 

Gins 5:19 
Ginsburg 5:3 
6:19,25 17:6 
17:13,23 18:14 
18:18 19:5 
36:8 37:13 
40:19 41:10 
44:4 49:14 
Ginsburg's 

39:25 

give 5:8 17:19 
20:3,12 33:23 
34:16 43:13 
47:19 

given 20:1 51:4 
gives 18:8 
giving 34:16 

46:6 

glaucoma 7:13 
go 6:21 33:7 

49:5,8 

goes 5:14 48:25 
going 4:8 6:15 
12:22 16:25 
28:12,23 38:16 
50:21 

Good 1:6 3:4 

21:13 

governed 17:2 
government 

22:7,11,15,18 
22:24 42:20 
49:5 51:24 

44:17 47:8 
48:15 
H

hair 8:22 9:8 

35:6

Hallward-Dri...
1:19 2:7 41:23 
41:24 42:1,8
43:1,6,15,18
43:22 44:9
45:6,14,19,23
46:16 47:5
48:1,4,7 49:16 
49:20,23 50:8 
50:10,18

happen 41:7
happened 16:9
happy 19:23
hard 34:5
harm 30:10
harmful 3:13

4:16 33:9

hasten 18:23
health 3:17,22
4:10,14,17,24
5:25 6:2,10,16
6:25 7:4 8:15 
9:5,10 10:12 
11:10 12:24,25 
13:7,14,18,24 
15:4 18:13 
19:10,18 21:6 
24:14 26:19 
27:5,7,12,15 

27:21,25 28:9 
28:17 29:5,19 
29:20,21,23 
30:5 31:21 
32:1,13 33:9 
37:23 38:16,19 
39:1,5 41:3 
52:1,20,23 
53:13 54:8,10 
healthier 3:24 

4:4,4 

healthy 30:15 
health-related 
29:10 35:12 

hear 3:3 
held 14:16 24:17 

25:11 38:1 
helps 12:19 
HEW 47:8 
history 52:13 
hold 50:21 
holding 50:12 
holds 19:14 
holes 48:3,10 
Honor 42:8 43:1 

44:9 46:16 
hope 43:22 
hornbook 19:19 
horses 30:16 
human 44:25 

46:19 

hurt 29:3,8 
hurting 11:14 
hypo 35:6 40:25 
hypothetical 

7:14 33:3 
37:24 40:8,12 

I

idea 21:13 50:16 
identical 14:5,5

38:10 54:22
Illinois 12:2
16:5,12,13
imagination

51:13

imagine 19:5

immunize 23:12 
implied 21:8,9 

21:12 24:4 
42:23,25 43:10 
43:14,16 44:2 
51:4 

impose 32:7 
34:24 40:1 
54:13 

imposed 32:4,6 

34:23 38:24 
41:8 

imposing 34:21 

35:2 

imposition 5:6 
impossible 4:12 

12:4 

impression

46:18 

incidence 44:16 

47:7,17

included 26:13 
includes 5:11 
including 28:3 
incomprehens...

46:22 

inconsistent 

12:4 

indicate 28:24 
indicates 44:19 
indicative 44:24 
indistinguisha... 

53:2 

individual 23:17 
industry 24:11 
34:25 40:15 
41:2 

industrywide

23:15 

information 

11:12 45:18,22
45:24 47:18 
ingest 5:12,13

6:21 17:8 

ingestion 28:25 

29:4 

injunction 35:25 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

36:3 41:7 

injunctive 29:12 
29:14 35:16,18 
35:21 41:4 
inquire 47:14 
inquiry 3:21 4:8 

6:3,17 24:13 

insert 5:11 
inserts 6:9 
insights 47:20 
intended 11:11 
intending 11:5 
intent 19:1 

38:11 

intention 23:11 
interest 42:13 

interpreting 

introduction 

42:21 

17:18 

34:16 

invite 4:20 
invoke 33:12 
involved 8:10 
involving 5:7 

47:25 

issue 7:2 16:6 
23:23 26:22 
27:3 31:6 
40:14 45:7 
46:8 

issued 23:24 

36:3 44:11,17 
46:10 47:8 
48:8,14 50:15 

issues 36:16 
item 8:1 
items 8:3 
J 

joined 38:7 
Joint 4:20 
Judge 36:4,10 

37:6 

July 44:11 
jury 17:2,3,6,10 

17:22 39:4 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Justice 1:20 3:3 
3:8,20 4:7 5:3 
5:18 6:7,13,19 
6:25 7:7,12,18 
7:21 8:16,24 
9:4,11 10:4 
11:3,18 12:6 
12:16,18,20 
13:4,16 14:25 
16:12,19 17:5 
17:6,13,23 
18:14,18 19:5 
19:11 20:8,20 
21:4,8,13,17 
21:22 23:1,3,8 
23:19 24:7,15 
24:23 25:8,15 
25:20,24 26:3 
26:7,16,23,24 
27:9,20 28:6 
28:11,14,19,20 
29:11,17,24 
30:3,7,9,10,15 
30:22,25 31:5 
31:7,11,12,19 
31:24 32:2,9 
33:7,13,17 
34:3 35:14,19 
35:23 36:8 
37:13,25 38:5 
38:7,13,23 
39:9,16,21,24 
39:24 40:6,8 
40:19 41:10,19 
41:22 42:2,3 
42:17 43:4,12 
43:16,19 44:3 
44:5 45:2,12 
45:16,20 46:13 
46:21 47:22 
48:2,5,20 49:4 
49:14,17,21 
50:3,9,16,21 
50:24 51:3,7 
51:16 52:7,11 
54:14,18,24 
Justices 38:7,9 

K 

Kennedy 7:12 
7:18,21 28:6 
28:11,14,19
31:11 38:13,23
39:24 40:7,8
Kessler 36:4,17

37:7 

Kessler's 36:10 
kind 32:22 
knew 37:1 
know 15:24 

18:20 27:14 
29:1 47:23 
49:11 

knowing 51:10 
knowledge

36:17 48:5 
known 44:21 

47:17 
L
la 17:22 
label 7:17 10:1 

10:11,14 15:21 
16:2 41:11 
labeling 3:11 
4:25 7:10,24 
8:3 9:18 11:6 
11:11,16 19:8 
22:15,16 23:10 
23:11 25:7 
34:20 35:9 
38:21 51:19,20 
51:24 53:1 
labels 11:13 
14:11 54:21 
lacked 38:11 
language 11:9

19:25 26:10,18
26:20 28:4 
34:8 39:14 
53:16,17,17,18
large 6:15 42:11 
late 36:20 
Laughter 8:23 

9:14 43:21 

50:23 51:6 
Lauren 10:15 
law 3:10,21 5:6 
8:18 9:1 10:8,9 
10:20 13:22 
14:15,22 17:16 
17:20 19:19,24 
24:19,20,21 
25:13,22,25 
26:4 32:4,7,14 
34:13 38:2,5,8 
46:11 48:21,22 
48:23,24 49:2 
49:2 52:5 

laws 15:14 22:16 

22:22 30:20 
35:5,9 38:12 
51:25 

lawsuit 40:4,13 

40:20,20 

lawyer 15:24 
lead 50:17 
leave 5:5 
lemon 30:20 
letter 44:11 
level 6:14 
levels 53:9 
liability 32:3 
light 3:13,23 4:3 

17:25 18:16
22:11 27:12
28:25 31:2,3,8
31:10,16 36:4 
36:16,23,23
37:2,3,16,21
39:7,22 40:17 
40:23 41:12
46:9,14,17
47:11 50:11,12
lights 17:9 36:18 
limited 23:17

51:11

line 19:13,14
34:18 37:18
43:3 50:19

lines 3:23
link 28:8,16

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

29:22 38:15,18

linkage 39:5
lip 47:25 48:9 
literally 34:10
litigation 7:5

9:17

little 48:3
location 7:10
51:22 52:8

logically 42:22
long 46:24 47:4 

48:6

look 25:16 27:11 

27:18 32:5
33:19,22 34:1 
39:4

looked 25:2
33:14,21

looking 22:1
lot 18:8
low 17:25 18:3,3 
18:15 36:13,16 
36:18,22 37:2 
37:16 40:2,21
40:22 41:11

lower 37:21

40:18 46:9,14

lying 52:15
M

main 32:25
Maine 14:5

16:10 23:24
24:1

maker 37:20
makers 23:12
making 8:19

10:8,22 20:25 
22:4 25:10
32:21,24 34:15 
46:5

man 10:15
mandated 35:3
manufacturer

5:11 7:16

marketed 37:6
marketing 8:4

Official - Subject to Final Review 

14:24 19:4 
34:1 

marketplace 
23:14 33:2 
36:6 

minimizing 

54:20 

minutes 50:25 
misconception 

50:1 

near 14:9 
nearly 3:10 
44:22 45:3 

necessarily 5:24 
Marlboro 10:15  misleading 7:24  necessary 29:7 

48:20 

15:5 

Massachusetts 

13:20 14:4 

Massachusett... 

54:5 

11:3 12:1,3,9 
16:7,11 24:2 
44:8,15 46:23 
47:2,6 48:17 

misled 47:3 

master 18:6,17  misrepresent 

need 24:13 

50:11 

negate 9:25 
negating 54:20 
neutralization 

18:24 36:15,19 
37:4 

material 8:20 

9:2 

5:22 

misrepresenta...  never 46:7 
14:22 15:25,25  new 7:12,15 
30:2 

4:21 

10:21 12:16,18  paid 31:16 
panoply 17:14 
13:1,8,19 
15:19 16:17,22  paragraph 4:18 
17:12 18:4,17 
18:19 19:11 
20:7,13 21:3 
21:11,14,25 
23:4 35:7 
43:13 50:25 
51:1,3,9 52:10 
52:17 54:17,25 

part 20:18,20 
participate 42:9 
particular 15:18 

paragraphs 

4:22 

38:4 

22:23 23:22 
25:9,16,22 
26:5 47:12 
52:6 54:13 
parties 18:24 
passed 7:5 45:12 
passively 45:4 

neutralize 9:24 

Olympic 30:5 
once 50:5 
ones 26:1 
opening 43:14 
nicotine 5:12,13  opinion 7:7,9 
9:16,23,24 
11:19,20,21 
13:10 16:25 
37:7 38:8 44:6  person 31:15,19 
54:19 

6:22 7:2,2 17:8 
18:3 23:21 
27:19 29:1,4 
40:2 41:15 
44:7,13,23 
31:20 34:7 
45:5,15 46:1,6  opponent 52:21  petition 53:8 
53:13 

Petitioner 43:4 

opposed 7:10 

people 8:17 29:3 

46:25 

29:7 

20:3 

moment 15:13 

non-uniform 

materially 30:1  misspoke 35:22 
materials 34:1  misunderstood 
matter 1:11 4:3 

13:2 

16:2 17:15,17  mode 32:10 
modify 41:7 
20:22 21:3 
modifying 27:3 
26:13 55:2 

matters 19:17  Moines 17:2 

mean 6:9 9:6,12  Monday 1:9 
money 30:23 

15:1 27:25 
34:9 43:9 

31:17 

meaning 42:12  Morales 12:7 
meaningful 44:8 
13:25 17:19 
meaningless 
21:19 25:19 
28:3 

46:22 

meant 16:24 
medical 12:11 

24:25 25:5 
26:7 33:25 

motivating 6:3 
motivation 6:4 
member 15:23  municipalities 
members 22:21 
mentioned 5:21 

8:7 

11:3 13:11 
merely 13:12 
merits 16:15,21 
method 23:22 
44:8,24 46:3 
46:15 47:13 

milligrams 46:2 
mind 10:7 
minimize 9:25 

11:17 

noted 48:21 
notice 46:10 

48:8,14 

number 5:22 
9:19 28:24 

numerous 28:2 

Morris 36:5 

37:11 

O
O 2:1 3:1 
object 10:17
objective 10:18
occluded 48:10 
occurred 36:24 
N 
occurs 14:20 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
October 1:9 
narrower 26:18  odds 20:11 
Okay 26:24 
Olson 1:15 2:3 

26:20 

nation 15:14 
national 11:15 

12:3 15:12 
17:1 20:18,21 

nature 45:10 

2:11 3:5,6,8,20 
4:6 5:4,17 6:7 
6:12,23 7:18 
8:2 9:3,6,15 

29:19,20 

opposite 3:25 

25:3 

oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 

23:6 38:14 
41:24 

order 29:2,7 

36:17 

ordered 36:1 

49:6,19 

Petitioners 1:4 

1:16 2:4,12 3:7 
44:1 47:16 
48:15 51:2 
Philip 23:18 
36:5 37:11 

phrase 5:4 27:5 
27:24 53:19,22

46:5 

picture 10:15 
overtaken 36:10  pictures 15:5 

P

P 3:1
package 5:23
packages 10:1

19:3

packs 35:3
page 2:2 9:23 

13:10,11 35:19 
51:17 52:2
53:3,7,8 54:23 

pages 4:19,20

51:21,24

place 45:17 
placed 23:23 
placement 45:4 

47:1 

plaintiff 4:1 
15:22 17:21 
28:15 40:4 

plaintiffs 53:9 
plaintiff's 15:24 
plan 49:5,8
please 3:9 23:9 

34:24 41:7 
42:2 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

plenty 5:19 
plurality 9:16 
9:22,23 10:5 
13:10 38:7 
54:19 

plus 38:7 
point 11:10 

13:11 18:10 
20:7 21:10 
22:10 25:10 
26:7 31:22,25 
35:25 44:5 
51:16 52:7,10 

21:12 

preempts 51:25 
premarketing 

33:24 

premium 31:2 
present 44:18 
presented 42:15 

43:3,8,25 
50:20 

presumably 

pretty 19:19 

20:11 

43:20 

prey 21:9 

9:1 14:21 
22:22 25:22 
49:25 52:8 
pre-empted 

points 27:4 
policy 11:7 12:5  pre-empt 8:18 
position 7:23 
17:23 22:24 
25:21 38:14,17 
38:18 42:6,19 
42:22 43:2,7 
46:21 49:7,10 
49:11,12,23 
50:2,7,19,22

52:12,12 

3:19 8:25 9:22 
12:10 13:15 
16:14 22:16 
24:3,6,18 
25:12,25 26:4 
51:23 52:4 
pre-empting 
22:7 24:18 
25:11 

pre-emption 

probably 6:12 

proposing 48:14 

9:9 10:2 34:10  proposition 
19:22 20:5 
50:5 
25:21 

problem 15:17 
19:12 44:18 
46:25 47:9,10 
48:13 

problems 4:17 
process 12:7,11  protected 11:15 
prove 28:21,23 
29:2,7,22,25 
40:18 

produce 9:12 
produced 23:22 

12:12 

44:7 

product 29:15 
29:16,18 30:2 
30:12,13,18 
37:20 

products 27:18 

28:11 30:1 
39:23 

programs 19:8 
prohibit 8:6 
prohibited 
46:23,24 
prohibiting 

12:23 

provide 37:10 
proving 29:10 

31:24 

provision 3:12 
8:4 13:22 20:9 
20:11 24:18 
25:11 26:22 
42:10 49:25 
provisions 8:8 

17:19 25:5

37:5 

publicly 36:21 
purchase 53:11 
purchased 

possibility 6:9 
power 18:8 
powerful 20:15 
powers 18:22 
practical 6:8 

practice 5:7,10 

20:21 

22:8 

practices 13:21 

20:18 40:13 
54:4 

pre 16:14 
precedents 

50:13 

precisely 3:18 

10:1 44:14 

predicate 13:4 
preempted 3:15 

13:21 33:5 
37:18 38:1,9 
38:10 

preemption 
20:9,11 21:9


31:16 

purported 9:24 
purporting 4:16 
purpose 11:7 
34:14 39:14 

prohibition 6:1 
8:9,19 11:1,2 
12:20 13:9,12 
13:13 19:6 
26:25 39:10 
46:4 53:24,25 
prohibits 53:22 
projected 31:14  pursue 5:20 
promoting 4:16  pursued 7:6 

3:11 5:25 
12:21 14:20 
15:21 16:20 
18:6 22:12 
24:5 25:16,18 
26:22 28:2 
31:6 42:5,7,10  promotion 3:16  put 10:11,13,14 
11:24 32:14,18 
42:11,23,24,25 
43:11,14,16 
34:11 45:21,24 
44:2,3 49:8 
51:4 

purposes 24:24 
33:23,24 34:17 

4:11,23 7:24 
8:4,11,13,14 
13:3 19:4 
39:11 52:19 
54:10 

puts 15:22 
Q 

pre-empts 52:4 

52:8,14 

principally 

35:24 

principle 20:16 
21:21 22:4,6 

Prior 34:19 

promotions 3:13 
7:17 23:24,25 
proof 30:16,24 
proposal 44:12 
proposed 44:25


45:14 

quantities 53:12
question 5:3,18 

7:6 8:10,12 
13:2,16 16:13 
18:20,21 21:16 
22:20 25:24 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

proscribe 17:9 
prospect 35:2 
protect 32:11,16  questions 43:25 
quit 30:14 31:15 

32:19 

31:7 39:25 
42:4,9,11,14 
43:3,8,24 45:7 
48:8 49:4 
50:11,20 52:4 
52:22 

31:20,20 

quite 23:17 25:6 

26:9 38:20 
45:3 

quotation 39:16 
quote 24:17 
quoted 27:4 
quoting 26:21 

R

R 3:1 
raises 15:2 
reach 16:13 
reached 16:20 
reaction 7:16 
read 10:6 49:8 

49:18 

really 53:4 
reason 6:13 10:4 

11:3 29:17,18
31:1 36:18 
44:23,25
reasonable

53:10

19:15

reasoning 19:14

reasons 32:25 
REBUTTAL 

2:10 51:1 
recall 11:20
receive 11:12 
recognition 20:4
recover 30:4 
redesigned

41:14

reduces 53:13
reducing 53:12 

54:20

referred 6:4,5

Official - Subject to Final Review 

requiring 23:25  ROBERTS 3:3 

45:21 

rescind 44:12 
reserve 23:1 
respect 9:8,16 

3:20 23:3 
24:15 25:8,20 
26:3,16,24 
27:9,20 35:14 
35:19 41:19,22 
42:3,17 43:12 
43:16,19 50:24 
51:7 54:24 

12:11,15 13:13 
18:12 19:9 
20:3 22:3 
23:16 25:4 
26:11,25 36:22  room 5:19 37:19 
43:10 44:1,2 
44:13 45:6 
51:14 52:1 

35:20 39:6 
40:17,22 43:4 
51:15 54:8 

Scalia 21:8,13 
30:22,25 31:5 
31:7 33:7,13 
33:17 43:4 
47:22 48:2,5 
49:4,17,21 
50:3,9,16,21 
51:16 

Rowe 12:13 
rule 15:9 23:20 
24:10,12 32:3 
21:5 39:19 
32:11,12 45:12  schools 14:9 
45:14 

scheme 20:18,21 

scientific 44:19 
scientifically 

rulemaking 

rules 23:14 52:8 

23:15 

52:8 

run 41:17,17 

52:21 
S
S 2:1 3:1 
Safeco 27:24
safer 3:13 4:17 

30:13 31:18

safety 4:24

22:23 26:12
52:5

sale 7:25 8:3,6 
satisfied 28:7
saving 20:14
saying 3:23

13:20 16:18
17:10 20:8
26:17 28:13,23
29:1 32:17,21
33:18 34:8
35:10 36:9
46:14,14 53:3 
says 5:11 8:16 

9:1 10:25
11:23,25 12:2 
19:6,7 22:9 
26:18,23,25
27:12 34:17

41:16 

scientist 39:6 
scope 5:4,5,16 
25:17 42:10 

score 37:8 
second 39:2 42:6 

42:14 

secondary 38:18 
Secondly 33:6 
seconds 34:4,17
section 11:6 
19:7 20:14 

see 26:19 34:6 

49:5 

seek 28:8,16
32:7 33:11 
35:16 37:10 
seeking 3:18 

35:17 

seeks 32:10 

54:13 

serious 4:17 
set 9:20 
setting 10:7,19
settlement 18:6 
18:17,24 36:15 
36:19 37:4 
Seven 38:9 
severe 7:15 
short 3:17 
show 3:23,25 

referring 25:9 

54:22 

refused 47:19 
regard 36:16 
regarding 36:22 
regardless 41:9 
regime 20:4,10 
regimes 19:24 

20:23 

regular 3:14 
27:13 39:8 
40:2 

regulate 7:20 

3:22 6:1,24 
11:9 19:9 
27:11,14,21 
29:4 31:25 
54:9 

relative 53:9 
relevant 43:11 
relied 30:1 
relief 29:12,14 
35:16,18,21 
54:9 

8:3 19:16 20:2 

rely 48:19 
relying 12:16 
remaining 50:25  respecting 3:16 
respects 13:21 
remedies 5:6 
remedy 37:10 
respond 48:11 
Respondents 
1:18,22 2:6,9 
3:10,17 10:22 
14:17 23:7 
41:25 

regulated 7:3 
regulates 20:22 
regulating 20:24  repeatedly 
regulation 18:12 
14:13,16 
report 47:8 
19:20,21 20:5 
represent 19:16 
23:25 24:3 
representation 
40:1,9,14,21 
41:1,8,17 
42:21 50:1 
54:13 

request 44:12 
requesting 48:9 

responses 24:23 
regulations 6:14  require 3:21 6:2  responsibilities 

response 22:20 
25:24 51:16 

9:7 

11:16 22:8 
52:14 

regulatory 

20:10 

Reilly 6:5,17 7:8 
11:9,18 12:15 
14:2,3,6 16:25 
22:13 25:1 
33:4 37:18 
43:8 49:14,16 
49:17,24 50:12 
51:17 53:16,25 
54:3 

reject 54:15 
relate 19:18 

27:22 

related 5:24 

28:1 

relates 8:4 13:14 

26:12 53:19 
relating 26:19 
relationship 

45:13,15,24 
required 23:21 

33:22 

requirement 

3:15 4:9,13 8:9 
11:1,2 12:23 
12:24 13:5,6,7 
13:9,12,13,17 
13:18 19:6 
26:13,25 27:7 
28:1 32:3,7 
34:11 37:22,23 
38:22,24,25 
54:7 

requirements 

11:11,22 14:15 
14:16 24:18 
25:11 32:6 
34:21 53:21,24 
53:25 

requires 40:9 

54:15 

20:15 

responsibility 

51:19 

responsible 

51:18 

restated 9:20 
result 25:14 
28:25 36:24 
results 44:14 
revisit 50:11 
RICO 36:2 37:7 

44:20 

rid 15:8,17 
Riegel 12:11,13 
13:23 14:2,14 
17:22 22:3 
24:16,24 25:8 
33:14 45:9 
54:1 

right 36:11 

42:17 43:17 
48:1 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

4:1 31:1 

showed 30:4 
showing 48:12 
side 15:1 54:5,6 
significant 

44:18 

similar 14:10 
simple 4:8 
simply 16:23 

30:4 39:6 

sit 52:25 
situation 15:12 

16:5 17:20 
24:8,8 41:4 
skull 32:14,18 

33:6 

smoker 44:25 
46:19 48:2 
smokers 3:14 
smoking 3:17,22 

sort 6:3 8:5,7 
12:10 30:11 

sorts 35:12 
source 18:11 
Souter 6:7,13 

19:11 20:8,20 
21:4,17,22 
28:20 29:11,17 
29:25 30:3,7,9 
30:10,15 31:12 
31:19,24 32:2 
48:21 

so-called 11:25 

47:25 

space 3:19 
special 23:15 

24:13 34:23,24 
34:24 

specially 24:10 

33:1,2,3,8 
37:19 

5:6,6,9,14 6:14 
8:5,8,18 9:1 
10:8 11:23,25 
12:2,23 13:2 
19:21,23,24 
20:4,17,23 
22:16,22 24:1 
24:1,18 25:11 
32:7,10,14 
35:2 36:12,25 
37:13,16 38:11 
39:11,25 40:13 
48:22,23 49:1 
51:25 52:5 
54:4 

stated 43:7 

49:24 

statement 5:14 
6:21 8:20 9:2 
19:1,6 26:19 

42:19 52:14 
53:1,16,22 
54:1,2,12 

statutes 54:5 
step 28:24 52:13 
Stephanie 1:6 

3:4 

Stevens 7:7 

2:9 

suppose 4:11 5:8 

5:9 7:12 21:1 
23:19,24 40:19 
49:18 

supposed 19:17 
Supreme 1:1,12 

48:21 

20:24 

survives 20:5 
sweeping 11:9 

11:18 12:16,18  surprise 42:3 
survive 15:16 
12:20 13:4,16 
16:12,19 17:5 
39:9,16,21 
54:14,18 
stop 17:7 
stretch 51:12 
strong 9:12 
strongest 51:12 
studies 3:23,25 
4:2 36:22,25 
47:20 48:12


T 2:1,1
table 6:11 
tailored 25:25
take 7:23 12:17 

26:9 28:4 
53:17,18 

T

specific 6:20 
11:13 25:25 
33:15 36:16 
39:16 

specifically 4:15 
12:17 14:14,17 
15:20 21:5 
22:8,21 38:25 
41:2,8 46:8 
54:8 

4:9,14,18,24

5:25 6:2,10,16 
6:24 7:4,15 
8:15,21 9:5,10 
10:12 11:10,13 
12:24,24 13:5 
13:7,14,18,24

14:8 15:5 
18:13 19:10,18 
21:6 24:14 
26:19 27:5,7 
27:11,15,21,25  specifics 16:23 
28:9,16,25 
30:14 31:15 
32:1 33:1 
34:11 35:10 
37:23 38:15,19  squarely 10:3,23 
38:25 39:5 
41:3 52:1,20 
52:23,24 54:7 
54:9 

spectra 34:20 
spend 21:12 
spoken 51:13 

stage 19:19 

29:21 

18:16 

11:8 

stand 45:11 
standard 14:19 

sold 31:2 
Solicitor 1:20 
22:19 51:15 
52:2 

somebody 8:21 

34:8 

17:16 

standards 14:22 
started 47:14 
starts 13:25 
state 3:10,18,21 

stuff 47:23 
stunningly 7:14 
subject 6:11 
20:22 21:2 
38:19 

statements 10:9 
12:23 13:6,18 
19:2,2 23:12 
states 1:1,12,21 
2:8 8:3,6 10:13 
10:14,16 11:22  submit 10:22

15:3,11,15 
17:21 53:20 
18:8,8 22:11 
54:12 
22:15,24 34:21  submitted 44:10 
35:5 36:1 42:4 
42:6,9,14,19 
43:2,7,10 
49:24 51:15 

subsequent 9:19 
substances 

54:25 55:2 

53:10 

statue 25:9 
statute 3:14 4:25  suggestion 

substitute 32:22 

36:1 

24:19 

superseded 9:19 

suit 7:24,25 
38:15 40:6 

7:5 8:8,18 10:6 
10:7,18,24,25 
11:4 13:8,21 
13:22 14:3,4,5 
14:8,10,13 
15:18 16:10 
17:15,15 20:13 
22:14,22 25:2 
25:17,22 26:5 
33:1,11,13,14 
33:16,18,19,22  supported 49:7 
34:14 39:10,14  supporting 1:22 

supplant 48:22 
supplemental 

supersedes 

38:20 

44:10 

38:13 45:7
52:22,24 

taken 43:2 50:18 
takes 40:15 
talk 34:4 
talked 54:18,19 
talking 12:21 
39:21 54:2 

talks 4:15 
tar 18:3 23:21 
27:19 29:1,4
36:16,18,22
37:2 40:2,18
41:15 44:6,13
44:23 45:5,15
46:1,5,9,14
53:12

targeted 24:11 

33:1,2,3,8 
37:19 40:14 
41:2,9 

tell 4:12 10:16 
15:9 27:9,10

telling 10:13

15:4

temporal 36:18

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

term 3:4 27:3 
terms 4:15 6:8 

20:21 36:11,12 
46:10 

test 41:16 44:13 

44:24 46:3 
47:13 

testing 23:22 
44:7 46:15 
text 10:23,25 
24:24 25:4,9 
34:14 

Thank 23:3,8 

41:19,21 42:1 
43:23 50:24 
51:3 54:24 

THEODORE 

1:15 2:3,11 3:6 
51:1 

they'd 15:16 
thing 8:5,7 

10:10 21:20 
30:25 32:10 
34:5,12 46:4 

things 5:23 
10:13 18:9 
26:9 48:24 
51:23 

think 4:6,8 5:17 

6:12 7:7 9:7 
10:5,20 13:1 
15:23 16:14,24 
18:5,10,25 
20:15 21:14,14 
21:22,25 22:5 
22:10 26:21 
28:18 29:24,25 
30:3 32:3 33:6 
35:7 37:17 
40:24,25 45:8 
46:25 48:18 
50:10 51:12 
thinking 30:13 
30:18 31:17 

third 25:1 
thoroughly 

51:10 

thought 25:23 
29:15 42:22 
51:10,11 

three 8:8 24:22 

38:7 53:21 
throat 35:11 
time 21:12 23:2 

35:8 44:17 
46:24 47:4,7 
48:6 51:11 

times 5:1 
tobacco 18:7 
34:22 36:20 
44:21 48:11 
54:11 

tort 13:22 17:20 
totally 8:24 15:3 
touches 21:2 
track 3:10 
tracks 37:9 
Trade 7:19 

20:16,17 45:10 

tradition 10:8 
traditional 
10:19 15:8 
34:13 

transcript 52:2 
treatment 7:13 
trial 39:4 
true 6:12 44:25 

48:13 

Trust 50:4 
truth 15:9 40:15 

41:9 

truthfully 37:20 
trying 9:11 

32:16,17 35:13 

turn 10:25 
turns 17:10 
twice 25:1 
two 27:4,18 

28:11 32:25 
39:22 43:25 

type 4:4 
U 

15:6,7 16:15 
25:21 32:21 
33:8 34:6,8 
35:15 39:9 
53:12 

understands 

22:5 

understood 22:6 
43:13,13 53:7 
unequivocally 

11:8 

unfair 10:19 
13:20 21:21 
45:3 54:4 

unfair-practice 

14:8 

uniform 18:11 
United 1:1,12,21 

2:8 22:11,15 
22:24 36:1 
42:4,6,9,14,19 
43:2,7,10 
49:24 51:15 

unsafe 7:25 
unusual 24:21 
urge 38:23 
use 28:4 30:2 

uses 53:17,19,22 

36:3 

53:23 

V 

v 1:5 3:4 15:20 

27:24 

value 29:15,18 

31:5,13,18 
various 18:9 
veracity 41:9 
verbatim 3:11 
verifiable 41:16 
versus 17:3 
view 8:16,25 
violation 23:13 
virtually 14:5 
25:15 38:10 

voluntarily 

understand 15:3 

45:17 

W 

word 13:5 27:22 

32:22 53:24 
want 5:12,13 
6:21 10:12,14  words 4:23,25 
13:9 25:17 
10:16 14:21 
28:1 53:1 
15:3,8,17 16:4 
17:8 18:3 19:3  workers 34:11 
28:13 34:3,16  worth 30:23 
34:23,23 45:7  wouldn't 4:3 
51:7 53:4 
written 10:2 
wrote 10:5 
X 

wanted 18:11 
19:1,2 53:6 

16:20 

warn 16:1 38:5 
warning 9:25 
34:21 35:3 
38:4 54:20 

warnings 35:2 

39:11,18 

Washington 1:8 

1:15,17,20 
wasn't 25:9 
way 4:13 7:19 
37:5 40:12 
53:7,15 
ways 9:13 
week 7:22 
went 6:16 11:10 
11:14 12:6,10 
12:12 34:22 
Weren't 37:25 
We'll 3:3 
We're 30:17 
we've 20:12 
whatsoever 

23:11 

whimsical 9:6 
white 22:11 
willful 15:25 
win 43:20 
wins 40:19,20 
wipe 35:1,13 
withdraw 45:1 

48:15 

withdrew 45:16 
Wolens 12:7 
14:1 17:19 
21:19 28:3 
54:1 

x 1:2,7 

Y 
year 44:11 
years 22:13,25 

45:4 

yield 27:19 37:2 

37:21 39:6,7 
41:15 44:24 
46:3,7,19 
47:12,14 
yields 44:23 
Yugo 30:19 
Yugos 30:22 

0 
07-562 1:5 
1 

1 51:17 
1A 11:6 
10:05 1:13 3:2 
11:07 55:1 
12 5:1 
13 12:21 
1331 11:6 12:19 

19:7 

1334(a) 26:22 
1334(b) 12:17 
12:19,22 19:7 
26:23,24 27:23 

1336 20:14 
15 4:22 
18 4:22 
1966 44:18 47:8 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

90s 36:20 

1967 44:21 

47:17 

1969 23:11 25:7 

34:20 

1970 23:20 
1978 48:4,8 
1983 47:10 
1984 47:24 
1987 46:9 
2 
2 4:18,21 
2002 36:23 
2008 1:9 44:6 
2023 36:7 
23 2:6 
25 52:2 
26 4:20 
28 4:20 

3 

3 2:4 
30 34:4,16 
4 

4A 53:3,7,8 
4,000 36:5 
40 45:3 
41 2:9 
42 8:21 
42A 35:19 
5 

50 15:3 
51 2:12 
527 9:23 13:10 

54:23 

6 

6 1:9 
67 44:18 47:8 
69 35:9 

8 
8 51:21,24 
9 
9 51:21,24 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

