Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
            
CARLSBAD TECHNOLOGY, 
: 
                           
:
INC., 
          
 Petitioner 
:
                       
:  No. 07-1437 
           
HIF BIO, INC., ET AL. 
: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Tuesday, February 24, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 11:20 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
GLENN W. RHODES, ESQ., San Francisco, Cal.; on behalf of

 the Petitioner. 

THEODORE S. ALLISON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf

 of the Respondents. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
GLENN W. RHODES, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


THEODORE S. ALLISON, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondents 

                   

20


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

GLENN W. RHODES, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

40


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (11:20 a.m.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument 

next in Case 07-1437, Carlsbad Technology v. HIF Bio, 
Inc.

 Mr. Rhodes.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF GLENN W. RHODES

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
 MR. RHODES:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The single issue presented in this case is 

whether the bar to review under 1447(d) is applicable to 
a district court's discretionary decision to decline the 
exercise of supplemental jurisdiction.  In this case, 
after the district court dismissed Respondent's federal 
RICO claim, the district court remanded the remaining 
state law claims under 1367(c).  That was not a remand 
based upon a lack of subject matter jurisdiction because 
jurisdiction was specifically conferred upon the court 
by 1367(a).

 It's been the rule for some 30 years that 
the bar of 1447(d) is limited to the specific grounds 
set forth in 1447(c).  And for reference the statutes 
are on page 2 and 3 of Petitioner's blue brief.

 Those two grounds are a remand that's based 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

upon a lack of subject matter jurisdiction and a remand 
that is based upon any defect other than a lack of 
subject matter jurisdiction if it's raised by a timely 
motion for remand filed within 30 days of the notice of 
removal.  The only prong of 1447(c) that's applicable in 
this case is whether this remand is one that's based 
upon a lack of subject matter jurisdiction.

 Now, Congress clearly conferred jurisdiction 

on the district courts in 1367(a), where the case 
contains a Federal claim and related State law claims, 
and a remand based upon a court's discretion to decline 
to exercise supplemental jurisdiction is not a remand 
that's based upon the court's lack of subject matter 
jurisdiction.

 Jurisdiction either exists or it does not. 

A district court's power to hear a case and its power to 
decline to exercise jurisdiction are part and parcel of 
the same thing.  Absent the power to hear a case, a 
district court cannot decline to exercise that -- or 
cannot exercise discretion to decline to exercise that 
jurisdiction.

 Now, in this Court's Osborn v. Haley case, 

it made reference back to Carnegie-Mellon and also 
United Mine Workers v. Gibbs, that even if only State 
law claims are remaining in the case after the Federal 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

claim has been resolved, the district court has 
discretion consistent with Article III to retain 
jurisdiction over that cause of action.

 Now, this is inconsistent with the Federal 

Circuit's analysis in this case that a remand based upon 
1367(c) is a remand based upon a lack of subject matter 
jurisdiction because in its view an independent basis 
for that jurisdiction is lacking.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Isn't there something odd 

about saying if it's really fundamental like the 
presence or absence of subject matter jurisdiction, that 
is not reviewable?  It's not disputed, right?  That if 
the district court says, I lack subject matter 
jurisdiction over, let's say, the RICO claim, as wrong 
as that might be, that would not be reviewable, right?

 MR. RHODES:  Justice Ginsburg, I agree with 
that, because if the court does say that I am remanding 
this because, either rightly or wrongly, I lack subject 
matter jurisdiction, then that would fall squarely 
within 1447(c) and (d).

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Though that could be a 
very grave error and yet, on a matter of discretion, 
that that would be reviewable.  And I appreciate your 
statutory argument, but it just seems odd to think that 
Congress would want to be firm that if the remand is for 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

lack of subject matter jurisdiction, wrong or right, no 
review, but it was a discretionary exercise, I could 
keep this, but I choose not to, that that is reviewable.

 That doesn't make a whole lot of sense to 

say the judge could keep it or remand it, that that 
action is reviewable, but the action of saying I don't 
have jurisdiction, when indeed the court did have 
jurisdiction, is just totally immune from review.

 MR. RHODES:  I agree with you, Justice 

Ginsburg, that that seems rather confusing.  I would 
address my answer in this way:  The review ban of 
1447(d) arose in the situations where apparently 
Congress wanted to -- to inhibit the abuse by those 
seeking only to delay the case by filing a motion for 
remand.

 For example, a case that is filed in State 

court that clearly expresses no Federal question or 
diversity issue, yet the defendant, in order to delay 
the case, will then remove it to Federal court.  In 
those situations Congress wants to prevent those kinds 
of frivolous removals to Federal court.

 But here in, our particular case -- and 

maybe -- let me back up a minute.  Maybe we should look 
at that in a different way, because even though you may 
have a legitimate basis for removing the case to Federal 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

court and the district court disagrees with you, perhaps 
the better policy is that those types of remands should 
not be reviewable, even though sometimes a district 
court is going to get them wrong.

 But in this particular case, there was a 

Federal RICO claim asserted against us in state court, 
and as a defendant we were not removing that case on 
some frivolous basis.  We were removing it because we 
were entitled to be in Federal court.

 It was only after the district judge 

dismissed the Federal RICO count -- and there was no 
motion for remand on this case filed by Respondents --
the district court sua sponte decided that he was not 
going to exercise his power to hear this case because he 
thought there were legitimate State law claims and he 
remanded on that basis.  Now, that's a discretionary 
remand and normally we would be arguing that where 
discretion is exercised by a district court it should be 
reviewable for an abuse of discretion.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But wouldn't it be --
here the district judge said:  I got rid of the RICO 
claim; all that's left are State law claims, and there's 
no Federal interest in this case any more.  They're all 
State law claims, they belong to State court, good-bye. 
I could keep it, I choose not to, because it isn't a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

sound use of the resources of the Federal court.

 Now, even if you're right that this is a 

discretionary decision, so you can't say no jurisdiction 
because the discretion implies that there is power, 
isn't it 99 cases out of 100 that the court of appeals, 
assuming reviewability, will say, we should defer to the 
district judge about questions of this nature, the 
district judge's decision that this isn't worth the time 
of the Federal court?

 MR. RHODES:  I'm not sure about the number 

of percentage of cases that -- that there is going to be 
a decision by the appellate court to say we shouldn't 
interfere in that, Justice Ginsburg.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But wouldn't you -- as a 
practical judgment, the Federal claim is gone, there is 
pending jurisdiction or now supplemental jurisdiction 
over the State claim, but the district court is told by 
Congress:  It's your call; it's a matter of discretion. 
And the judge gives one of the reasons that's 
enumerated, that reason being that the State claims are 
overwhelming in this case, the RICO claim is dismissed, 
thinking it was worthless, so it's a State case.

 Why would a court of appeals overturn such a 

judgment?

 MR. RHODES:  I think, Justice Ginsburg, I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

can give you an answer to that because there is a recent 
case that's in our brief, the Brookshire case from the 
Fifth Circuit, where the district court exercised 
jurisdiction over Federal and supplemental claims, and 
did that for quite a while and ruled on a number of 
dispositive motions; and then basically on the eve of 
trial, after resolving the Federal claim, remanded it 
back to the State court.

 The Fifth Circuit, because it had the 

ability to review that, under the statutory 
construction, was able to review that on the basis of an 
abuse of discretion and said that the district court had 
definitely abused its discretion.  After retaining 
jurisdiction for that length of time and then returning 
it to State court, that was a waste of judicial 
resources.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But that was because we 

would have to retread the same ground in the State court 
that had already been covered in the Federal court, but 
that's not the kind of case that was presented here.  I 
know the case has lingered for a long time, but there 
was no processing of those State law claims.  The judge 
concentrated on RICO, threw it out, and said "the rest 
of the claims I'm not interested in."

 So it's not a case like the Fifth Circuit 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

where there was a large investment of Federal court 
energy and time and sending it back would mean going 
over once again what had already transpired in the 
Federal court.

 MR. RHODES:  That is true.  This case is 
different because what the -- what the district court 
had labeled as legitimate State law claims as to, for 
example, inventorship, we argued are within the 
exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal court, and that is 
why we appealed to the Federal Circuit in order to have 
that issue resolved.

 Here, if we went back to State court we 
would be in the position of having to argue that the 
State court -- that the State court lacked jurisdiction 
to hear that claim because it was something that was 
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal court. 
It seems that in this particular situation it would be 
better to have the Federal Circuit to pass upon the 
exclusivity of the inventorship issue under the patent 
laws rather than to have to go back to State court and 
work back up through the State court system to have that 
resolved.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Could you explain why 
that is a Federal question?  It's a dispute over the 
ownership of this invention, right?  So it's not a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

question of the validity of a patent or infringement of 
a patent?  It's just the invention is like any res, and 
two parties are disputing about ownership.  Why is --
why does that become a Federal case?

 MR. RHODES:  It became a Federal question 

because in our view it arose under the patent laws 
because when they filed their complaint, even though 
they couched it in terms of purely State law claims, 
they did allege that we had falsely claimed to be the 
inventors; and the basis for that claim that we falsely 
claimed to be the inventors was the oath and declaration 
that was filed in connection with our patent 
applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

 So what they were raising was an issue with 
respect to our ability to claim to be the inventors of 
what we claimed in our U.S. patent application. 
Therefore, since that falls squarely under our 
entitlement to -- to inventorship, of what we claim to 
be the inventors, under Article I, section 8, it seemed 
to us that that clearly fell within the exclusive 
jurisdiction of the Federal court.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I just ask one sort of 

a preliminary question?  If we just applied the plain 
language of 1447(d), then this case was properly 
remanded; the remand order is not subject to review.  Is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that correct?

 MR. RHODES:  Yes.  If we just read 1447(d) 

on its face, that's --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  What really prevents us 

from reaching that decision in this case?  Because 
actually it's an open question because you were both 
arguing about it here and you certainly disagree.  Why 
couldn't we just simply say for this particular category 
of remand orders, we'll just apply the plain language of 
1447(d)?

 MR. RHODES:  That would be going against the 

rule that was set out in Thermtron that 1447(d) was 
limited to only the specified grounds of 1447(c), which 
are lack of --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  I understand it would be a 
modification of the dicta in Thermtron, but why wouldn't 
that be a simple solution to this case?

 MR. RHODES:  I'm not sure that would be a 
simple solution to this case, Justice Stevens, and the 
reason for that is that if we -- if the Court decides to 
do that, then we return to those areas where total chaos 
could really break out, and the reason for that is that 
we would be in a situation where district courts can --
can dress up in language that is lack of subject matter 
jurisdiction and remand cases, knowing that there is not 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

going to be any review.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  No, no, that wouldn't 
avoid the plain language of the statute.  Pretextual 
district court orders wouldn't avoid the plain language 
of the statute.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I think there's no 
need to dress up anything.  I mean, as Justice Stevens 
point, you wouldn't have to dress up anything; if you 
send it back, it's not reviewable.

 MR. RHODES:  If we were to read 1447(d) just 

plainly on its face without --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How could we do that in 
light of Thermtron?  Thermtron went against the clear 
text of the statute that says remands are not 
reviewable, period; and in Thermtron the Court said, yes 
they are sometimes, if we think it's so outrageous for a 
district judge to say:  Yeah, I've got jurisdiction over 
this case, but my docket is so crowded, and this is a --
this is a small-change case; it belongs in State court. 
The court, I think, was outraged by a district court 
thinking that it could dump a case simply because it was 
too busy with more important things.

 That was the setting of Thermtron, and to 
reach the result that the court reached, the court had 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to go against the language of the statute when read in 
absolute terms.  But anyway, the court did that, and 
then they gave a rationale for what the new test was 
going to be.  It was no longer going to be remands are 
no longer -- remands are not reviewable; it's going to 
be -- that applies only to the cases where -- what was 
it, subsections (c) and (d) of 1447?  The -- it -- the 
court read the statute to say less than it in fact did. 
That's what Thermtron did.

 MR. RHODES:  That is the exact holding of 

Thermtron, that they were not going to construe that so 
woodenly to allow a district court to abdicate its 
mandatory jurisdiction.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, "woodenly" is 
a bit much.  I mean, they're going to read it not to say 
what it says.  And Thermtron involved the court saying: 
I'm not going to take this because I'm too busy with 
other things.  I mean, it could be limited to that 
unusual situation, couldn't it?

 MR. RHODES:  Mr. Chief Justice, it could, 

but --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And it would solve 
the problem Justice Ginsburg pointed out earlier, that 
this way you don't get to appeal big things like no 
subject matter jurisdiction, but you do get to appeal 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

picayune things.

 MR. RHODES:  Again, I'm not sure how we 

would divide those up between big things and picayune 
things.  But I think, to answer your question, we have 
30 years of this particular rule under Thermtron being 
uniformly applied by all the circuit courts of appeal, 
and they have found this to be a workable, statutory 
interpretation to give them a framework to handle these 
kinds of cases.  And it's not a situation where the 
circuit courts of appeal have run away from situations 
like this, where remands have been based upon declining 
to exercise discretionary power to send it back to State 
court.  They have seemed to want to work within the 
statutory framework to review those kinds of cases.

 And I think it would be a large departure to 
go back and try to modify what all the circuit courts of 
appeal, except for maybe the Federal Circuit, had 
adopted as a workable framework in order to solve these 
kinds of problems.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, one clear way to do 
it would be to overrule Thermtron, but neither party has 
asked for that.  You haven't asked for it and the other 
side hasn't asked for it.

 MR. RHODES:  That's correct, Justice 

Ginsburg. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  You just have to 

distinguish Thermtron.  You don't have to overrule it. 
You'd still apply it on its facts.

 That's a very different problem.  When the 

judge says, I'm too busy to hear this, I'm going to send 
it back to State court, that's what Thermtron resolved. 
Here --

MR. RHODES:  And yet --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  That's not involved here.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But your concern is what 

was the Court's reasoning, and you could apply the 
Court's reasoning, its interpretation of 1447.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You have to get rid of 

Quackenbush, too, don't you?

 MR. RHODES:  Yes, Quackenbush is a --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Throw that overboard, too?
 MR. RHODES:  We would have to overthrow that 
as well, and the reason for that is because Quackenbush 
was a remand based upon -- an abstention-based remand 
under Burford, and in that case, this Court found that 
abstention-based remands did not fall within either 
prong of 1447(c).  So -- in fact, this Court gave that 
very little attention in Quackenbush before it moved on 
to the 1291 issue.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You thought the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Respondents asked us to overrule Thermtron.  On page 22, 
you say, "Respondents' implicit request for this Court 
to overrule Thermtron should be rejected."

 MR. RHODES:  Yes, we did say that, and I'm 

not sure that they -- they expressly said you should 
overrule Thermtron, but the strong suggestion in their 
brief was perhaps you should.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, isn't it -- isn't it 

also the case that Congress has amended the relevant 
provisions of 1447 since Thermtron and they have not 
seen fit to overrule or change those provisions?

 MR. RHODES:  Given the fact that Congress 

has twice amended 1447(c) after Thermtron, it seems that 
they have actually ratified this Court's statutory 
construction under Thermtron, and --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So this gets a lot 
of attention across the street?  The reviewability of 
remand orders gets --

(Laughter.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I mean, in one of 

those provisions they said this was only technical 
amendments, and if they're just doing technical 
amendments that doesn't mean they have to look at it and 
approve the whole thing.

 MR. RHODES:  No, Mr. Chief Justice, if they 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

wanted to get rid of Thermtron they could have done it 
in a very direct way.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, that's right, but 

what if we want to get rid of it?

 (Laughter.)
 MR. RHODES:  I can't suggest what the Court 

might finally decide other than to say that -- that, 
again, the circuit courts of appeal have uniformly 
applied this.  They seem to be --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, they don't 

have a choice, right?  They can't say, I don't like the 
Supreme Court rule so I'm not going to apply it, other 
than the Federal Circuit.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. RHODES:  Actually, Mr. Chief Justice, 
that was going to be my next point.  Not the Federal 
Circuit -- but it does, again, provide a workable 
framework for dealing with these issues, and it seems to 
be a very large departure to go back and wipe out the 
last 30 years of case law that has been developed to 
handle these issues.  It would be a large departure.

 If there's no other questions, I'll reserve 

the remainder of my time for rebuttal.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Let me just make one 

comment on the large departure:  Would it be a large 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

departure if we just said, in the very narrow category 
of cases where there has been a remand on the basis of 
-- the district judge doesn't want to exercise 
supplementary jurisdiction over State law claims, that's 
not appealable, period?  Just say that's a slight 
exception from Thermtron?

 MR. RHODES:  Well, Mr. Chief Justice --

sorry -- Justice Stevens, that would be an exception 
under Thermtron that doesn't seem to be called for 
because the way it's been interpreted, it has to be --
and the way even the amendments in '88 and again in '96 
-- it's only barred if it's for a lack of subject matter 
jurisdiction, and plainly here a discretionary remand --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- not for that basis? 

They're not amendments of subsection (d), and subsection 
(d) is what has the language that really reads right on 
this case.

 MR. RHODES:  Well, I think the other -- the 
other problem with that is the whole doctrine of -- of 
supplemental jurisdiction that was first laid out in 
Carnegie-Mellon and United Mine Workers, where the 
difference between remands under 1367(c) seem not to 
overlap with the remands under 1447(d) and 1441.  So if 
we made that an exception and we pulled this into 
1447(d), it -- I'm not sure what the consequences would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

be from doing that.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Allison.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE S. ALLISON

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
 MR. ALLISON:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 Let me begin with Petitioner's counsel's 
last remark, and that is that we don't know what the 
consequences would be, except that we do know that by 
applying the review bar to supplemental jurisdiction 
remands, it would bring us closer to achieving the 
purpose that has been expressed in the statutes of 
Congress since 1887.

 I know that the Court is familiar with the 
late Chief Justice Rehnquist's dissenting opinion when 
he was an Associate Justice in the Thermtron case and 
Justice Rehnquist at that time wrote that there had been 
no cases since the review bar was put into place in 
1887, no cases where exceptions to review had been 
recognized.  He believed that it was a plenary bar on 
review.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But that was a dissenting 

opinion, and that was how many years ago?  How many 
years? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. ALLISON:  Justice Ginsburg, it -- it was 

a dissenting opinion, and it was in 1976, and we 
certainly would not cite it as authoritative except for 
our confidence in Justice Rehnquist's review of the law 
as it existed at that time.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But you have a majority 
rationale that says, although 1447(d) reads in absolute 
terms, in fact the only remands that it covers are those 
based on a defect in the removal or lack of subject 
matter jurisdiction.  So you can't say, well, Thermtron 
had a result that we can limit to Thermtron's own 
unusual facts because the court gave a rationale.  I 
mean, courts give reasons for what they do.  And the 
court drastically limited 1447(d) when it said 1447(d) 
has to be read consonant with 1447(c), and 1447(c) deals 
with only two kinds of remands, one for defective 
removal and the other for lack of subject matter 
jurisdiction.

 MR. ALLISON:  That is correct, Justice 
Ginsburg.  And, in fact, to harken to your earlier 
question, to Your Honor's earlier question, we are not 
asking for Thermtron to be overruled, but I think, in 
effect, to be updated.

 The Court in Thermtron did give a rationale, 

and the rationale that it gave was that it viewed, the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

opinion for the Court by Justice White viewed 1447(c) as 
being the sole source of Federal remand power.  And as 
the Court noticed in the ensuing 30, 40 -- excuse me --
yes, 40-odd years, there have been a number of other 
sources of remand power recognized.

 And we see no reason why the holding in 
Thermtron should not be overruled but be updated to 
recognize that the spirit of what the Court held in that 
case would be served and would be harmonized with the 
review bar as it has existed lo these 120 odd-years, 
would be served by expanding the -- excuse me, 
contracting the reach of Thermtron so that it is not 
simply 1447(c) remands, but any remand authorized by 
statute.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  But no matter -- no 

matter what adjective or what verb you use, that's 
overruling a very clear rule of Thermtron.  And we 
normally operate on a theory that when a conventional 
statute is construed by this Court, it stays construed 
until Congress changes it.

 And I don't -- I don't see how you can 

follow the line of reasoning that you're proposing, even 
though you talk about updating and harmonizing, without 
violating that basic stare decisis rule.

 MR. ALLISON:  It's an essential question, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Justice Souter.  And I think the way we harmonize it is 
to say that Thermtron has indeed been pared back by the 
Court's subsequent decisions.  And, of course, it is our 
second argument that the Court do something with the 
rule in Thermtron.

 Our primary argument gets to the question of 
the statutory language and whether a Cohill remand falls 
within it.  But our secondary argument is to say, 
certainly, it's well recognized that Cohill disapproved 
and pared down that portion of Thermtron that held that 
the only remand power is the remand power expressed in 
1447(c).

 And a later case, in Quackenbush, the 

question of whether mandamus or appeal was the 
appropriate vehicle for challenging remand orders.  And 
in that case, again, the Court said that we are 
disavowing Thermtron's sweeping statement that mandamus 
is the only vehicle for challenging a remand order.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  We did -- we did not 

disavow the relationship between (c) and (d).

 MR. ALLISON:  Indeed, the Court did not. 

And we suggest again only -- it is only a suggestion in 
our brief that the Court might wish to look at the 
ensuing history since Thermtron and make a similar 
limiting statement that recognizes that a lot of remand 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

authority has been established since Thermtron, and a 
number of statutes by the Court's -- by the Court's 
holding in Cohill.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What in addition to the 

civil rights provision?

 MR. ALLISON:  Well, indeed in Things 

Remembered, the Court was considering whether a 1447's, 
comma -- whether 1447's review bar applied to a remand 
under 1452.  1452 is another statute that deals with 
remands in the context of cases associated with 
bankruptcy issues.  And in that case, there was a remand 
for failing to follow a removal procedure, and the Court 
held, citing Rice, United States versus Rice, based on 
Congress's awareness of the universality of the review 
ban.  That when another statute comes in place that 
provides for remand, for the review bar applies whether 
or not, of course --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Then that's a specific 
statute that would prevail over the general provision.
 MR. ALLISON:  It's a little bit -- Justice 
Ginsburg, it's a little bit different than the Court's 
decision in Osborn, in which the much more specific 
Westfall Act Provision was held to prevail over 1447.

 In Things Remembered, it was simply the fact 
that the review bar was held to apply to a remand, even 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

according -- under another statute, and, of course, 
recognizing that there are now other statutory bases for 
remand.  The interesting thing about 1452 -- and Justice 
Ginsburg, I believe you wrote the concurrence on this --
is that 1452 provides for remand on any equitable 
ground, and that such remands are not subject to review 
by appeal or otherwise.

 So 1452, again, expresses, I think, a trend 
in the thinking of Congress, if there is such a thing as 
the thinking of Congress, that the review bar will be 
expanded and will even include such discretionary 
decisions by a district court as any equitable ground.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But Things Remembered, I 
think, was raised very carefully, such to say that the 
question that's before the Court now has not been 
decided before, the precise question here --

MR. ALLISON:  Yes.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- discretionary remand?
 MR. ALLISON:  That is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So -- and I think, I 

looked again at Things Remembered, and it turned out to 
be just as I remembered it --

(Laughter.)
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- that it was neutral, 

colorless.  It just said we haven't been confronted with 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

this issue.  And I think Powerex said the same thing, 
although it said it in more definite terms, it is far 
from clear.

 MR. ALLISON:  That is true, and that is what 

the federal circuit said -- meant when it said that 
Powerex made the question precedential.  Because, 
certainly, if Things Remembered had decided the issue 
that's before the Court today, I think the issue 
wouldn't be before the Court today.  And that is, of 
course, why we're here.

 But the Thermtron -- the Thermtron issue 
really is our second argument, and the it is a very 
gentle argument that the Court -- and if the Court 
certainly wishes to continue discussing that, that is --
that is very profitable for what we're doing here today.

 But the first argument is that, harkening 
back to your original questions, Justice Ginsburg, why 
shouldn't a remand when only state law claims remain in 
a case, and -- Cohill 1367(c)3 why should that not come 
within the language of 1447(c), what I'll call the 
jurisdictional clause, because it clearly is a matter 
that is only of concern to state courts -- and I think 
that the Court in United Mine Workers v. Gibbs made 
clear that when all State -- all the federal claims have 
left the case and only State law claims remain, that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it's almost presumptive that those should be sent back.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Yes, but your opponent's 

argument is that the claims that remain do include a 
federal claim.

 MR. ALLISON:  That is true, Justice Stevens. 

That is his argument.  And I think what's important 
about that argument is the inconsistency it sets up.  It 
essentially casts a net that draws in these supplemental 
jurisdiction cases.  And what the net does is it allows 
the courts of appeals to review some artful pleading 
issues, which is essentially what we have here.  We have 
state law claims, and our opponents are suggesting that 
these are, in fact, disguised federal claims that must 
be heard in federal --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  What about the ruling on 

the RICO claim itself?  That was clearly a federal 
issue.

 MR. ALLISON:  Yes.  The RICO claim was 

what -- was what gave the district court jurisdiction 
over the case in the first place.  And it's interesting 
that in the district court's decision, it made me 
think -- it made me think a little bit of the Waco case, 
because in the district court's decision, the district 
court very clearly said, first, I have no jurisdiction 
over these State law claims, and I'm going to remand 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

them, and now I will turn to the RICO claim which 
creates a conundrum that I'm not sure --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Maybe the district judge 

didn't say that.  Maybe you can point me to the place 
where it did.  But if it did say it, it's flatly wrong, 
because there is -- that's what supplemental 
jurisdiction is.  It's says you have jurisdiction, it's 
a huge difference between you have no jurisdiction, you 
are powerless, and you have power, but it's up to you to 
exercise it or not.

 MR. ALLISON:  Justice Ginsburg, that's why 
we didn't -- we didn't press that point because I think 
-- I think that even we can see that the court exercised 
its jurisdiction to decide and dismiss the RICO claim, 
although it's reminiscent of -- of -- of the decision 
in Kircher --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It wasn't a discretionary 

decision about RICO.  RICO -- there was no Federal 
claims stated.  That's out of it.
 MR. ALLISON:  Right.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What the district court 

has jurisdiction over are the supplemental claims, which 
it can choose not to exercise, but it can say, "I don't 
have jurisdiction," because Congress has given 
supplemental jurisdiction, but then left it to the court 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to remand on stated conditions.

 But you -- you seem to conflate the absence 

of subject matter jurisdiction with a discretionary 
decision not to exercise subject matter jurisdiction 
that the court undoubtedly has.

 MR. ALLISON:  Well, Justice Ginsburg, I have 
made every effort not to conflate those two -- those two 
concepts, and in fact we did say that when -- when a 
court acquires supplemental jurisdiction in a case, that 
that is a species of subject matter jurisdiction at that 
point, as the Court held in City of Chicago v 
International College of Surgeons.

 At that point the court does have a 

mandatory discretion -- or mandatory jurisdiction to 
exercise power over the entire Article III case; but we 
then argue when the Federal claims leave the case that 
jurisdiction changes.  That jurisdiction changes from a 
mandatory one that the court, as in Thermtron, would 
certainly be concerned if the district court had -- if 
jurisdiction that's mandatory.  But it changes by 
operation of 1367 from mandatory to discretionary; and 
when Congress passed 1367 in 1990, Congress intended to 
codify the existing law right up through Cohill on the 
subject of supplemental jurisdiction, combining 
ancillary and intended in those --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So your idea is 

there is jurisdiction, but when the Federal claims fall 
out then there is no jurisdiction?

 MR. ALLISON:  Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay, but that seems 
to me to echo the fundamental misperception that if you 
have Federal jurisdiction based on a particular event --
let's say if you're dumping chemicals in the water; that 
gives you a Federal cause of action; you have Federal 
jurisdiction, there's a trial; it turns out you weren't 
dumping chemicals with it.  You don't then say "there is 
no jurisdiction; there was jurisdiction before, but once 
the finding is made that the facts didn't support it, 
then there was no jurisdiction."  You say, "there was 
jurisdiction all the time and you lose."

 MR. ALLISON:  There was -- there was indeed 
jurisdiction.  And what we argue is that the nature of 
the change, when it goes from mandatory, the concern of 
Thermtron, to discretionary, which gives -- virtually 
pushes out of the Federal Court to the State courts 
anytime up until trial -- the nature of that 
jurisdiction changes; and we believe that that is not 
what Congress intended by the words "subject matter 
jurisdiction" in 1447(c).

 So if we come back to the words of the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

statute, the words of the statute should be construed 
broadly in order to serve the purposes of -- of remand. 
The Court has made clear that concerns of comity and 
federalism say that we should construe 1447 in favor of 
remand and I believe that that should extend to the 
concept of the whole delay of concept and shuttling.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Then -- when what you are 

doing is that you are using the label "subject manager 
jurisdiction" in a way that seems to me, that -- there 
are many categories that -- could be ambiguous at the 
edges, but not subject matter jurisdiction.  Subject 
matter jurisdiction means court, you have no power, 
period.  There's no diversity, there's no Federal 
question, there's no other basis for the Federal Court 
to exercise jurisdiction; and to say, "Well, we can 
extend the label subject matter jurisdiction to include 
a case where the district court chooses not to hear 
several claims, even though it has jurisdiction over 
them."  I think is a -- is a -- a misapplication of the 
notion subject matter jurisdiction.

 MR. ALLISON:  It is -- it is a difficult, a 

difficult conundrum.  I think maybe all conundra are 
difficult, but this one particularly.  And, Justice 
Ginsburg, in the opinion that you wrote for the Court in 
the RBOC case, you very clearly pointed out that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

word "jurisdiction" is used in a variety of ways by 
legal scholars --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes, but not subject 

matter jurisdiction.  Jurisdiction -- personal 
jurisdiction, subject matter jurisdiction.  When I did 
in -- what I did in -- Arbaugh was explain that all 
kinds of things like time limits on when you can sue, 
have been labeled jurisdictional and mandatory, when 
they are not.  They are simply statutes of limitation.
 MR. ALLISON:  That -- that is correct, but 
that is -- that is the nature of the problem -- that is 
the nature of the problems that this Court confronted in 
Kircher and Powerex -- again this is by analogy only. 
We are not concerned about labels like that, if the 
district court believes that it was remanding the case 
because it lacked jurisdiction.

 But I'm coming back to subject matter 

jurisdiction, and I have found no case in this Court 
that has given a definition -- Chicago with its 
mandatory language was the closest I was able to find.

 The Koffski case out of the Seventh Circuit 
is the one case I was able to find from a higher court 
that said that supplemental jurisdiction is technically 
a form of subject matter jurisdiction.  What we argue --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Why is it only technical? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

It says court, you can exercise power.  Subject matter 
jurisdiction is defined as the court has to hear a given 
controversy, and under supplemental jurisdiction, there 
is undoubted power in the district court to hear those 
claims.

 MR. ALLISON:  In a -- certainly I think in a 
textbook sense, that is what subject matter -- when the 
world is divided between subject matter and personal and 
third, territorial, which I think is a relation -- has 
relation to personal -- when the world is divided along 
those lines, then subject matter takes on the broadest 
possible meaning, but we have conflicting broad 
policies.  On the one hand, we have a broad definition 
of subject matter definition; on the other hand we have 
a statute which should be construed to favor remand at 
almost all lawful cost.

 And -- and subject matter, if we step back 
from our -- our dichotomy, personal and subject matter, 
subject matter also means, as -- as Your Honor said at 
the beginning of this argument, something that is --
that is a subject with which the Federal courts should 
be concerned, and on which they should expend their 
resources; and we now have the circuit courts hearing 
appeals from decisions, discretionary decisions because 
they are technically within the realm of subject matter 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

jurisdiction.  But clearly, State law claims are not the 
subject matter with which the Federal courts should 
routinely be concerned, and that's why United Mine 
Workers -- and Cohill echoed it -- says, these claims 
should be sent back, and Cohill even -- both cases even 
said that the propriety of remanding the claims should 
be reviewed at every stage in the litigation.  That --
that I think presents us a pretty strong policy by this 
Court that remand is to be indulged at almost any lawful 
cost.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You put it in terms in 
your brief, if I understood your position correctly, 
yes, there is subject matter jurisdiction over 
supplemental claims, but once the district court chooses 
not to exercise that jurisdiction, it -- and these were 
the words you used -- it divests itself of jurisdiction.

 MR. ALLISON:  Yes.  The -- the argument --

and I was attempting to make a technical argument in the 
brief, and I think today I'm speaking in slightly more 
global terms -- but the technical argument is that when 
a district court makes a decision, in the words of 
Gibbs, that it would be inappropriate to exercise 
jurisdiction over those claims, then the claims are to 
be remanded.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  What about if it changes its 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

mind?

 MR. ALLISON:  Justice Alito, the question of 
whether a -- question of reviewability because the cases 
that we found that -- that talked about reconsideration 
talked about reconsideration only because there was the 
potential for review of these orders.

 I think the norm for a remanded case is that 
the order of remand is entered, and the order of remand 
is certified and mailed to the State court, and the 
district court no longer has jurisdiction at that point.
 Now, certainly it could reconsider as it's 
engaged in its decision process.  It could go back and 
forth and reconsider it before it signs the order.  But 
that's no different than -- than many other cases in 
which the court can make a discretionary decision that 
it has no jurisdiction.  The only --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The discretionary 

decision is that it chooses not to hear the case.  It's 
not that -- there is no discretion there.  There's 
nothing discretionary about saying we have no 
jurisdiction.  "We have no jurisdiction" means we have 
no power.  So the -- the two are just at odds with each 
other.  No power, yes power, but we choose not to 
exercise it.

 MR. ALLISON:  And I think -- I think that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the -- again, the purpose of the review bar as it's been 
expressed for over a hundred years has been to trust 
district judges to make these decisions and then get the 
case where it needs to be to be resolved on its merits. 
So to say that the court chooses not to hear the case, 
it -- it suggests something a little bit less gray than 
the decision that I believe the court would make when it 
decides that it's inappropriate to hear the case, in the 
words of Gibbs.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  You -- you think that 

choosing not to hear is distinguishable from a decision 
that it is inappropriate to hear?

 MR. ALLISON:  I -- I meant only to suggest 
that it is not a -- it is not a choice.  It is a -- not 
a -- an ill-considered choice.  Certainly, there's a 
choice involved in the decision that it would be 
inappropriate.  But I don't see -- and I -- I wanted to 
resist a rhetorical question, but then I don't see how 
anyone could say when a court is faced with -- with only 
State-law claims that it could either decide or not and 
it decides it would be inappropriate to retain 
jurisdiction over those claims, that somehow it should 
retain jurisdiction over those claims.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, that would argue 

for a highly deferential standard of review, respecting 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the district judge's determination that it's not what --
it hasn't invested any time in these questions, and it 
shouldn't because they are purely state-law questions. 
That's -- but that's something quite different from --
from a -- the -- the terminology that you used is 
troublesome because a court doesn't have power to divest 
itself of jurisdiction.

 If Congress conferred jurisdiction, it has 
it, and the Court can't divest itself of that.  It can, 
if Congress permits it, decline to exercise 
jurisdiction, but a court is not capable of divesting 
itself of jurisdiction.

 MR. ALLISON:  I believe -- well -- and --
and this is a mechanical argument, but I believe that 
when the court makes the decision and then -- and then 
anticipates the remand, that that is divesting itself of 
jurisdiction.  And perhaps it was -- perhaps it was a 
poor -- a poor word choice.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But even -- even on your 
analysis it seems to me that the -- the cart is before 
the horse, because it is -- it is not remanding because 
it does not have jurisdiction.  What you are saying is 
that after it remands, it loses jurisdiction, and those 
are two very distinct categories.

 The -- the premise for the declaration that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it does not have jurisdiction is a premise that even on 
your argument does not arise until a following 
agreement.  So there's no way you can fit it, it seems 
to me, into the category of -- of remanding because at 
the point of deciding to remand it has no jurisdiction. 
That, in fact, is false.

 MR. ALLISON:  It is simply a question, I 

think, of -- of the choice of the word "divest" and what 
that means.  I would -- I would analogize in order to 
perhaps make it seem more -- more accurate -- I would 
analogize it to what a district court now can do under 
section 1447(e) where it makes a decision in applying 
the law and using its discretion to allow joinder of a 
nondiverse party.  That would then destroy diversity and 
require the case to be remanded.

 And I would say in that case that the court 
makes a decision that divests it of jurisdiction, and it 
is very technical to say that -- - that, yes, it lacks 
jurisdiction as soon as it enters the order admitting 
that party to the case.  But that may very well be the 
same order that remands the case to the State court.
 But I -- I do -- I do see that there is 

power.  And if the case is going to turn on power, as 
the Court -- or some of the language in Powerex 
suggested that it might, then I don't know that we -- I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

don't know that we make much headway.  But I -- I -- I 
see 1447(c) lacks subject-matter jurisdiction as being 
broad enough to comfortably take in the situation where 
the State law claims not really within the subject 
matter of the district court's power are determined 
inappropriate for that court to hear and sent back.

 And it would bring us that much closer to 

realizing the purpose of the review bar that has existed 
since 1887, taking a category of cases out of the 
jurisdiction of the circuit courts.

 I -- I had wanted to offer the Court some 

statistics, as maybe proof-of-law professors might, 
about the number of cases that are heard on this type of 
appeal.  I can say that the cases that we found in our 
footnotes 18 through 20 represent something close to the 
universe of cases in which discretion was found to be 
abused.  And that abuse of discretion is nowhere near as 
egregious as the legal errors that a district court 
might commit in making erroneous judgments that it has 
no jurisdiction which were nonetheless subjected to the 
review bar in Kircher and Powerex.

 If there are no further questions, I will 

stop now.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 
Thank you.  Mr. Rhodes, you have four minutes remaining. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GLENN W. RHODES

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. RHODES:  I just had a few quick points I 

would like to bring up.

 First, I would just like to reiterate that 

when Congress enacted 1367, that gave it Article III 
jurisdiction in those matters, just as 1331 and 1332 do. 
I would also like to reiterate that -- that stare 
decisis should be maintained over this statutory 
interpretation because it has proved to be workable 
rather than not workable.

 Again, the circuit courts -- even though as 
Mr. Chief Justice has iterated that they have to follow 
this, they have found it to be a workable framework. 
And, again, as the Court expressed in Powerex, they 
agreed that in Quackenbush that Thermtron was not 
altered.  And Congress has -- has seemingly ratified 
this Court's interpretation in Thermtron, and it has 
been applied in Quackenbush.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I suppose, though, 
if it would be an abuse of discretion for the district 
court to retain jurisdiction, then maybe there is --
there never was jurisdiction, right?  You said they have 
discretion to exercise or not.  If it turns out they 
don't have discretion to exercise, you know, because 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it's a huge State claim and a tiny Federal claim, why 
wouldn't that properly be regarded as an absence of 
jurisdiction?

 MR. RHODES:  My response to that, Mr. Chief 

Justice, is that until a court decides that it was an 
abuse of discretion, the district court had jurisdiction 
under 1367(c) to either exercise that power or not 
exercise that power.

 And unless there's any further questions for 

me, I ask that the brief -- this be remanded to the 
Federal circuit to decide on the merits of the appeal.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 12:17 p.m., the case in the 

above-entitle matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

A 

abdicate 14:12 
ability 9:10 

able 9:11 32:20 

above-entitle 

above-entitled 

11:15 

32:22 

41:15 

1:12 

absence 5:11 

29:2 41:2 
Absent 4:18 
absolute 14:2 

21:7 

abstention-ba... 

16:19,21 

abuse 6:13 7:19 

9:12 39:17 
40:21 41:6 
abused 9:13 

39:17 

accurate 38:10 
achieving 20:12 
acquires 29:9 
Act 24:23 
action 5:3 6:6,6 

30:9 

addition 24:4 
address 6:11 
adjective 22:16 
admitting 38:19 
adopted 15:18 
ago 20:24 
agree 5:16 6:9 
agreed 40:16 
agreement 38:3 
AL 1:7 
Alito 17:8 34:25 

35:2 

allege 11:9 
Allison 1:18 2:5 
20:3,4,6 21:1 
21:19 22:25 
23:21 24:6,20 
25:17,19 26:4 
27:5,18 28:11 

28:20 29:6 
30:4,16 31:21 
32:10 33:6 
34:17 35:2,25 
36:13 37:13 
38:7 

allow 14:12 

38:13 

allows 27:9 
altered 40:17 
ambiguous 

amended 17:9 

31:10 

17:13 

amendments 

17:22,23 19:11 
19:15 

analogize 38:9 

38:11 

analogy 32:13 
analysis 5:5 

37:20 

ancillary 29:25 
answer 6:11 9:1 

15:4 

anticipates 

37:16 

anytime 30:21 
anyway 14:2 
apparently 6:12 
appeal 14:24,25 

15:6,10,17 
18:8 23:14 
25:7 39:14 
41:11 

appealable 19:5 
appealed 10:10 
appeals 8:5,23 
27:10 33:24 

APPEARAN... 

1:15 

appellate 8:12 
applicable 3:12 

4:5 

application 

11:16 

applications 

11:13 

applied 11:23 

15:6 18:9 24:8 
40:19 

applies 14:6 

24:16 

apply 12:9 16:3 

16:11 18:12 
24:25 

applying 20:11 

38:12 

appreciate 5:23 
appropriate 

23:15 

approve 17:24 
Arbaugh 32:6 
areas 12:21 
argue 10:13 
29:16 30:17 
32:24 36:24 
argued 10:8 
arguing 7:17 

12:7 

argument 1:13 

2:2,7 3:3,7 
5:24 20:4 23:4 
23:6,8 26:12 
26:13,16 27:3 
27:6,7 33:20 
34:17,18,20 
37:14 38:2 
40:1 

arose 6:12 11:6 
artful 27:10 
Article 5:2 

11:19 29:15 
40:6 

asked 15:22,22 

15:23 17:1 
asking 21:22 
asserted 7:6 
Associate 20:17 
associated 24:10 
assuming 8:6 
attempting 

34:18 

attention 16:23 

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

avoid 13:3,4 
awareness 24:14  Bio 1:7 3:4 
a.m 1:14 3:2 

authoritative 

17:17 

21:3 

authority 24:1 
authorized 

22:13 

B 

back 4:23 6:23 
9:8 10:2,12,20 
10:21 13:10 
15:12,16 16:6 
18:19 23:2 
26:17 27:1 
30:25 32:17 
33:17 34:5 
35:12 39:6 

ban 6:11 24:15 
bankruptcy 

24:11 

bar 3:12,22 

20:11,19,21 
22:10 24:8,16 
24:25 25:10 
36:1 39:8,21 
barred 19:12 
based 3:18,25 

4:2,6,11,13 5:5 
5:6 15:11 
16:19 21:9 
24:13 30:7 

bases 25:2 
basic 22:24 
basically 9:6 
basis 5:7 6:25 
7:8,16 9:11 
11:10 19:2,14 
31:14 

beginning 33:20 
behalf 1:16,18 

2:4,6,9 3:8 
20:5 40:2 
believe 25:4 
30:22 31:5 

36:7 37:13,14 
believed 20:21 
believes 32:15 
belong 7:24 
belongs 13:20 
better 7:2 10:18 
big 14:24 15:3 

bit 14:15 24:20 
24:21 27:22 
36:6 

blue 3:24 
break 12:22 
brief 3:24 9:2 
17:7 23:23 
34:12,19 41:10 
bring 20:12 39:7 

40:4 

39:3 

broad 33:12,13 

broadest 33:11 
broadly 31:2 
Brookshire 9:2 
Burford 16:20 
busy 13:23 
14:17 16:5 

C 

c 2:1 3:1 14:7 

23:20 
Cal 1:16 
call 8:18 26:20 
called 19:9 
capable 37:11 
carefully 25:14 
Carlsbad 1:3 

3:4 

Carnegie-Mel... 

4:23 19:21 

cart 37:20 
case 3:4,11,14 

4:6,9,16,18,22 
4:25 5:5 6:14 
6:16,19,22,25 
7:5,7,12,14,23 
8:21,22 9:2,2 
9:20,21,25 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

34:14,23,23 
36:20,22,23 
39:4 

clause 26:21 
clear 13:14 

15:20 22:17 
26:3,24 31:3 
clearly 4:8 6:17 

conferred 3:19 

4:8 37:8 

confidence 21:4 
conflate 29:2,7 
conflicting 

33:12 

confronted 

25:25 32:12 
confusing 6:10 

close 39:15 
closer 20:12 

11:20 26:21 
27:16,24 31:25  Congress 4:8 
34:1 
5:25 6:13,20 
8:18 17:9,12 
20:14 22:20 
25:9,10 28:24 
29:22,22 30:23 
37:8,10 40:6 
40:17 

39:7 

14:14,20,22 
16:25 17:16,20 
17:25 18:10,15 
19:7 20:2,6,16 
30:1,4,5 39:24 
40:13,20 41:4 
41:12 

10:5 11:4,24 
12:5,17,19 
13:19,20,22 
16:20 17:9 
18:20 19:17 
20:17 22:9 
23:13,16 24:11 
26:19,25 27:20  choice 18:11 
27:22 29:9,15 
36:14,15,16 
29:16 31:17,25 
37:18 38:8 
32:15,18,21,22  choose 6:3 7:25 
35:7,18 36:4,5 
36:8 38:15,16 
38:20,21,23 
41:13,14 
cases 8:5,11 
12:25 14:6 
10:10,18 15:6 
15:9,14 19:2 
15:10,16,17 
20:19,20 24:10 
18:8,13,17 
27:9 34:5 35:3 
26:5 32:21 
35:14 39:9,13 
33:23 39:10 
39:14,16 
casts 27:8 
40:12 41:11 
categories 31:10  Circuit's 5:5 

28:23 35:23 
chooses 31:17 
34:14 35:18 
36:5 

closest 32:20 
codify 29:23 
choosing 36:11 
circuit 9:3,9,25  Cohill 23:7,9 
24:3 26:19 
29:23 34:4,5 
College 29:12 
colorless 25:25 
combining 

29:24 

come 26:19 

37:24 

30:25 

category 12:8 

cause 5:3 30:9 
certainly 12:7 

comes 24:15 
comfortably 

cite 21:3 
citing 24:13 
19:1 38:4 39:9  City 29:11 
civil 24:5 
claim 3:16 4:10 
5:1,14 7:6,22 
8:15,17,21 9:7 
10:15 11:10,15  comment 18:25 
11:18 27:4,16 
27:18 28:1,14 
41:1,1 

21:3 23:9 26:7 
26:14 29:19 
33:6 35:11 
36:15 

commit 39:19 
complaint 11:7 
concentrated 

coming 32:17 
comity 31:3 
comma 24:8 

39:3 

certified 35:9 
challenging 
23:15,18 

change 17:11 

30:18 

changes 22:20 
29:17,17,20 
30:22 34:25 

chaos 12:21 
chemicals 30:8 

Chicago 29:11 

30:11 

32:19 

Chief 3:3,9 13:7 

claimed 11:9,11 

9:23 

11:16 

concept 31:6,6 
claims 3:17 4:10  concepts 29:8 
concern 16:10 
26:22 30:18 

4:25 7:15,22 
7:24 8:20 9:4 
9:22,24 10:7 
11:8 19:4 
26:18,24,25 
concerns 31:3 
27:3,12,13,25 
28:19,22 29:16  concurrence 
30:2 31:18 
33:5 34:1,4,6 

32:14 33:22 
34:3 

conditions 29:1 

concerned 29:19 

25:4 

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

15:24 21:19 
32:10 

correctly 34:12 
cost 33:16 34:10 
couched 11:8 
counsel 20:2 
39:24 41:12 
counsel's 20:8 
count 7:11 
course 23:3 
24:17 25:1 
26:10 

court 1:1,13 

3:10,15,16,19 
4:19 5:1,13,17 
6:7,17,19,21 
7:1,1,4,6,9,13 
7:18,24 8:1,5,9 
8:12,17,23 9:3 
9:8,12,15,18 
9:19 10:1,4,6,9 
10:12,14,14,16 
10:20,21 11:21 
12:20 13:4,16 
13:20,21,21,25 
13:25 14:2,8 
14:12,16 15:13 
16:6,20,22 
17:2 18:6,12 
20:7,15 21:12 
21:14,24 22:1 
22:3,8,19 23:4 
23:16,21,23 
24:7,12 25:12 
25:15 26:8,9 
26:13,13,23 
27:19,24 28:13 
28:21,25 29:5 
29:9,11,13,18 
29:19 30:20 
31:3,12,14,17 
31:24 32:12,15 
32:18,22 33:1 
33:2,4 34:9,14 
34:21 35:9,10 
35:15 36:5,7 
36:19 37:6,9 

Congress's 

24:14 

connection 

11:12 

consequences 
19:25 20:10 
considering 

24:7 

consistent 5:2 
consonant 21:15 
construction 
9:11 17:15 

construe 14:11 

31:4 

construed 22:19 

22:19 31:1 
33:15 

contains 4:10 
context 24:10 
continue 26:14 
contracting 

22:12 

controversy 

33:3 

conundra 31:22 
conundrum 
28:2 31:22 
conventional 

22:18 

correct 12:1 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

37:11,15 38:11 
38:16,21,24 
39:6,11,18 
40:15,22 41:5 
41:6 

decisis 22:24 

36:3 

40:9 

disavow 23:20 
disavowing 

23:17 

declaration 

discretion 4:11 

39:5,18 40:21 
41:6 

diversity 6:18 
31:13 38:14 
divest 37:6,9 

11:11 37:25 
courts 4:9 12:23  decline 3:13 

4:11,17,19,20 
37:10 

15:6,10,16 
18:8 21:13 
declining 15:11 
26:22 27:10 
30:20 33:21,23  defect 4:2 21:9 
defective 21:16 
34:2 39:10 
defendant 6:18 
40:12 

court's 3:13 

7:7 

defer 8:6 

4:11,13,16,22 
16:11,12 17:14  deferential 
23:3 24:2,2,21 
27:21,23 39:5 
40:18 

36:25 

38:8 

37:16 

divesting 37:11 

4:20 5:2,22 
7:18,19 8:4,18 
9:12,13 29:14 
35:19 38:13 
39:16,17 40:21  divests 34:16 
40:24,25 41:6 
discretionary 
3:13 6:2 7:16 
8:3 15:12 
19:13 25:11,18  doctrine 19:19 
28:17 29:3,21 
30:19 33:24 
35:15,17,20 

divide 15:3 
divided 33:8,10 
docket 13:19 

38:17 

doing 17:22 20:1 

discussing 26:14 
disguised 27:13  draws 27:8 

21:14 

entitled 7:9 
entitlement 

11:18 

enumerated 

equitable 25:5 

8:20 

25:12 

erroneous 39:19 
error 5:22 
errors 39:18 
ESQ 1:16,18 2:3 

2:5,8 

essential 22:25 
essentially 27:8 

27:11 

covered 9:19 
covers 21:8 
creates 28:2 
crowded 13:19 

D 

d 3:1 5:20 14:7 

19:15,16 23:20 

days 4:4 
dealing 18:18 
deals 21:15 24:9 
decide 18:7 

28:14 36:20 
41:11 

decided 7:13 
25:16 26:7 
decides 12:20 
36:8,21 41:5 
deciding 38:5 
decision 3:13 
8:3,8,12 12:5 
24:22 27:21,23 
28:15,18 29:4 
34:21 35:12,15 
35:18 36:7,11 
36:16 37:15 
38:12,17 

decisions 23:3 

25:12 33:24,24 

defined 33:2 
definite 26:2 
definitely 9:13 
definition 32:19  dismiss 28:14 
dismissed 3:15 

33:13,14 

delay 6:14,18 

7:11 8:21 

31:6 

dispositive 9:6 
departure 15:15  dispute 10:24 
disputed 5:12 
disputing 11:3 
dissenting 20:16 

18:19,21,25 
19:1 

destroy 38:14 
determination 

20:23 21:2 
distinct 37:24 

determined 39:5  distinguish 16:2 
developed 18:20  distinguishable 
dichotomy 

36:11 

37:1 

33:18 

dicta 12:16 
difference 19:22 

28:8 

different 6:24 

10:6 16:4 
24:21 35:14 
37:4 

difficult 31:21 

31:22,23 
direct 18:2 
disagree 12:7 
disagrees 7:1 
disapproved 

23:9 

district 3:13,15 
3:16 4:9,16,19 
5:1,13 7:1,3,10 
7:13,18,21 8:7 
8:8,17 9:3,12 
10:6 12:23 
13:4,18,21 
14:12 19:3 
25:12 27:19,21 
27:23,23 28:3 
28:21 29:19 
31:17 32:15 
33:4 34:14,21 
35:10 36:3 
37:1 38:11 

26:15 31:8 
drastically 

established 24:1 
ET 1:7 
eve 9:6 
event 30:7 
dress 12:24 13:8  exact 14:10 

13:9 

dump 13:22 
dumping 30:8 

30:11 

D.C 1:9,18 

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 14:23

21:20,21
echo 30:6
echoed 34:4
edges 31:11
effect 21:23
effort 29:7
egregious 39:18
either 4:15 5:18 

16:21 36:20
41:7

enacted 40:6
energy 10:2
engaged 35:12
ensuing 22:3

23:24

entered 35:8
enters 38:19
entire 29:15

example 6:16 

10:8 

exception 19:6,8

19:24 

exceptions

20:20 

exclusive 10:9 
10:16 11:20 

exclusivity

10:19 

excuse 22:3,11
exercise 3:14 

4:12,17,19,20
4:20 6:2 7:14 
15:12 19:3 
28:10,23 29:4 
29:15 31:15 
33:1 34:15,22
35:24 37:10 
40:24,25 41:7 
41:8 

exercised 7:18 

9:3 28:13 
existed 21:5 
22:10 39:8 

existing 29:23 
exists 4:15 

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

22:9 

harkening 26:16 
harmonize 23:1 

harmonizing 

9:17 10:23 
13:6,13 14:23 
15:20,25 16:10  harmonized 
20:23 21:1,6 
21:20 24:4,18 
24:21 25:4,13 
25:18,20,24 
26:17 28:3,11 
28:17,21 29:6 
31:7,24 32:3 
32:25 34:11 
35:17 36:24 
give 9:1 15:8 

7:14 10:15 
16:5 31:17 
33:2,4 35:18 
36:5,8,11,12 
39:6 

headway 39:1 
hear 3:3 4:16,18 

22:23 

21:13,24 
given 17:12 

28:24 32:19 
33:2 

gives 8:19 30:9 

30:19 

GLENN 1:16 

2:3,8 3:7 40:1 

global 34:20 
go 10:20 14:1 
15:16 18:19 
35:12 

heard 27:14 

39:13 

hearing 33:23 
held 22:8 23:10 

24:13,23,25 
29:11 

HIF 1:7 3:4 
higher 32:22 
highly 36:25 
history 23:24 
holding 14:10 

22:6 24:3 

goes 30:18 

15:14,18 18:18 
40:14 

Honor 33:19 
four 39:25 
Honor's 21:21 
framework 15:8  going 7:4,14 
horse 37:21 
8:11 10:2 
huge 28:8 41:1 
12:11 13:1 
14:4,4,5,11,15  hundred 36:2 
14:17 16:5 
18:12,16 27:25 
38:23 

Francisco 1:16 
frivolous 6:21 

I
idea 30:1
III 5:2 29:15 

expanded 25:11 
expanding 

22:11 

expend 33:22 
explain 10:23 

32:6 

expressed 20:13 

23:11 36:2 
40:15 

expresses 6:17 

25:8 

expressly 17:5 
extend 31:5,16 

F 

face 12:3 13:12 
faced 36:19 
fact 14:8 16:22 
17:12 21:8,20 
24:24 27:13 
29:8 38:6 

facts 16:3 21:12 

30:13 

failing 24:12 
fall 5:19 16:21 

30:2 

34:2 41:1,11 
federalism 31:4 
fell 11:20 
Fifth 9:3,9,25 
filed 4:4 6:16 
7:12 11:7,12 

filing 6:14 
finally 18:7 
find 32:20,22 
finding 30:13 
firm 5:25 
first 19:20 26:16 
27:20,24 40:5 

fit 17:11 38:3 
flatly 28:5 
follow 22:22 
24:12 40:13 
following 38:2 
footnotes 39:15 
form 32:24 
forth 3:23 35:13 
found 15:7 

16:20 32:18 
35:4 39:14,16 
40:14 

7:8 

5:10 30:6 

fundamental 

further 39:22 

falls 11:17 23:7 
false 38:6 
falsely 11:9,10 
familiar 20:15 
far 26:2 
favor 31:4 33:15 
February 1:10 
federal 3:15 
4:10,25 5:4 
6:17,19,21,25 
7:6,9,11,23 8:1 
8:9,15 9:4,7,19 
10:1,4,9,10,16  G 3:1 
general 24:19 
10:18,24 11:4 
gentle 26:13 
11:5,21 15:17 
18:13,16 22:2  Gibbs 4:24 
26:5,24 27:4 
27:13,14,16 
28:18 29:16 
30:2,7,9,9,20 
31:13,14 33:21 

26:23 34:22 
36:9 

41:9 

G

good-bye 7:24 
grave 5:22 
gray 36:6 
ground 9:18 

25:6,12 

grounds 3:22,25 

12:13 
H

Haley 4:22 
hand 33:13,14 

ill-considered

40:6

36:15

immune 6:8
implicit 17:2
implies 8:4
important 13:23 

27:6 

inappropriate 
34:22 36:8,12 
36:17,21 39:6 

include 25:11 
27:3 31:16 

Ginsburg 5:9,16  handle 15:8 

5:21 6:10 7:20 
8:13,14,25 

18:21 

harken 21:20 

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

inconsistency 

27:7 

inconsistent 5:4 
independent 5:7 
indulged 34:9 
infringement 

11:1 

inhibit 6:13 
intended 29:22 
29:25 30:23 
interest 7:23 
interested 9:24 
interesting 25:3 

27:20 

interfere 8:13 
International 

29:12 

interpretation

15:8 16:12 
40:10,18
interpreted

invention 10:25 

19:10 

11:2 

inventors 11:10 

11:11,15,19
inventorship

10:8,19 11:18 

invested 37:2 
investment 10:1 
involved 14:16 

16:9 36:16 

issue 3:11 6:18 

10:11,19 11:14 
16:24 26:1,7,8
26:11 27:17 
issues 18:18,21
24:11 27:11 
iterated 40:13 

J

joinder 38:13 
judge 6:5 7:10 
7:21 8:7,19 
9:22 13:18 
16:5 19:3 28:3 

judges 36:3 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

judge's 8:8 37:1 
judgment 8:15 

8:24 

judgments 

39:19 

judicial 9:15 
jurisdiction 

3:14,18,19 4:1 
4:3,7,8,12,14 
4:15,17,21 5:3 
5:7,8,11,14,19 
6:1,7,8 8:3,16 
8:16 9:4,14 
10:9,14,16 
11:21 12:25 
13:18 14:13,25 
19:4,13,20 
20:11 21:10,18 
27:9,19,24 
28:7,7,8,14,22 
28:24,25 29:3 
29:4,9,10,14 
29:17,17,20,24 
30:2,3,7,10,12 
30:12,14,15,17 
30:22,24 31:9 
31:11,12,15,16 
31:18,20 32:1 
32:4,4,5,5,16 
32:18,23,24 
33:2,3 34:1,13 
34:15,16,23 
35:10,16,21,21 
36:22,23 37:7 
37:8,11,12,17 
37:22,23 38:1 
38:5,17,19 
39:2,10,20 
40:7,22,23 
41:3,6 

jurisdictional 
26:21 32:8 

Justice 3:3,9 5:9 

5:16,21 6:9 
7:20 8:13,14 
8:25 9:17 
10:23 11:22 

12:4,15,19 
13:2,6,7,8,13 
14:14,20,22,23 
15:20,24 16:1 
16:9,10,13,16 
16:25 17:8,16 
17:20,25 18:3 
18:10,15,24 
19:7,8,14 20:2 
20:6,16,17,18 
20:23 21:1,4,6 
21:19 22:1,15 
23:1,19 24:4 
24:18,20 25:3 
25:13,18,20,24 
26:17 27:2,5 
27:15 28:3,11 
28:17,21 29:6 
30:1,4,5 31:7 
31:23 32:3,25 
34:11,25 35:2 
35:17 36:10,24 
37:19 39:24 
40:13,20 41:5 
41:12 

K 

keep 6:3,5 7:25 
kind 9:20 
kinds 6:20 15:9 
15:14,19 21:16 
32:7 

Kircher 28:16 
32:13 39:21 

know 9:21 20:9 
20:10,15 38:25 
39:1 40:25 

knowing 12:25 
Koffski 32:21 

L 

label 31:8,16 
labeled 10:7 

32:8 

labels 32:14 
lack 3:18 4:1,2,7 
4:13 5:6,13,18 

6:1 12:14,24 
19:12 21:9,17 

lacked 10:14 

32:16 

lacking 5:8 
lacks 38:18 39:2 
laid 19:20 
language 11:24 
12:9,24 13:3,4 
14:1 19:16 
23:7 26:20 
32:20 38:24 

large 10:1 15:15 
18:19,21,25,25 

late 20:16 
Laughter 17:19 
18:5,14 25:23 
law 3:17 4:10,25 

7:15,22,24 
9:22 10:7 11:8 
18:20 19:4 
21:4 26:18,25 
27:12,25 29:23 
34:1 38:13 
39:4 

lawful 33:16 

34:9 

laws 10:20 11:6 
leave 29:16 
left 7:22 26:25 

28:25 

legal 32:2 39:18 
legitimate 6:25 

7:15 10:7 
length 9:14 
let's 5:14 30:8 
light 13:14 
limit 21:11 
limitation 32:9 
limited 3:22
12:13 14:18
21:14

limiting 23:25
limits 32:7
line 22:22
lines 33:11
lingered 9:21 

litigation 34:7 
little 16:23 

24:20,21 27:22 
36:6 

lo 22:10 
long 9:21 
longer 14:4,5 

meaning 33:12 
means 31:12 
33:19 35:21 
38:9 

meant 26:5 

36:13 

mechanical 

look 6:23 17:23  merits 36:4 

35:10 

23:23 

looked 25:21 
lose 30:15 
loses 37:23 
lot 6:4 17:16 

23:25 
M

mailed 35:9
maintained 40:9
majority 21:6
making 39:19
manager 31:8
mandamus
23:14,17
mandatory

14:13 29:14,14
29:18,20,21
30:18 32:8,20

37:14 

41:11 

mind 35:1 
Mine 4:24 19:21 

26:23 34:3 
minute 6:23 
minutes 39:25 
misapplication

misperception

31:19 

30:6 

modification 

12:16 

modify 15:16 
motion 4:4 6:14 

7:12 

motions 9:6 
moved 16:23 

N

matter 1:12 3:18  N 2:1,1 3:1 
narrow 19:1
nature 8:7 30:17 
30:21 32:11,12

4:1,3,7,13 5:6 
5:11,13,19,22 
6:1 8:18 12:24 
near 39:17
14:25 19:12 
21:10,17 22:15  need 13:8
needs 36:4
22:16 26:21 
neither 15:21
29:3,4,10 
30:23 31:11,12  net 27:8,9
31:16,20 32:4 
32:5,17,24 
33:1,7,8,11,14  new 14:3
33:17,18,19,25  nondiverse
34:2,13 39:5 
41:15 

neutral 25:24
never 40:23

38:14

norm 35:7
normally 7:17

matters 40:7 
mean 10:2 13:8 

22:18

14:15,18 17:20  notice 4:4
17:23 21:13 

noticed 22:3

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

22:4 24:2 
39:13 

22:17 

overthrow 

16:17 

notion 31:20 
number 8:10 9:5  overruling 

22:7 

8:21 

overturn 8:23 
overwhelming 

O 
O 2:1 3:1 
oath 11:11 
odd 5:9,24 
odds 35:22 
odd-years 22:10 
offer 39:11 
Office 11:13 
Okay 22:15 30:5  page 2:2 3:24 
once 10:3 30:12 

ownership 
10:25 11:3 

P 3:1 

17:1 

P

34:14 

parcel 4:17 
pared 23:2,10 
part 4:17 

open 12:6 
operate 22:18 
operation 29:21  particular 6:22 
opinion 20:16 
7:5 10:17 12:8 
15:5 30:7 
20:24 21:2 
particularly 
22:1 31:24 

31:23 

opponents 27:12 
opponent's 27:2  parties 11:3 
oral 1:12 2:2 3:7  party 15:21 
38:14,20 
order 6:18 10:10  pass 10:18 

20:4 

11:25 15:18 
23:18 31:2 
35:8,8,13 38:9 
38:19,21 

passed 29:22 
patent 10:19 

11:1,2,6,12,13 
11:16 

orders 12:9 13:4  pending 8:16 

17:18 23:15 
35:6 

original 26:17 
Osborn 4:22 

24:22 

outraged 13:21 
outrageous 

13:17 

overboard 

16:16 

overlap 19:23 
overrule 15:21 
16:2 17:1,3,6 
17:11 

overruled 21:22 

percentage 8:11 
period 13:16 
19:5 31:13 

permits 37:10 
personal 32:4 
33:8,10,18 
Petitioner 1:5 
1:17 2:4,9 3:8 
40:2 

Petitioner's 3:24 

20:8 

picayune 15:1,3 
place 20:19 

24:15 27:20 
28:4 

question 6:17 
10:24 11:1,5 
11:23 12:6 
15:4 21:21,21 
22:25 23:6,14
25:15,16 26:6 
31:14 35:2,3
36:18 38:7 
questions 8:7 
18:22 26:17 
37:2,3 39:22 
41:9 

quite 9:5 37:4 

R

R 3:1
raised 4:3 25:14 
raising 11:14
ratified 17:14

40:17

rationale 14:3
21:7,12,24,25

RBOC 31:25
reach 13:25

22:12

reached 13:25
reaching 12:5
read 12:2 13:11 

14:1,8,15
21:15

reads 19:16 21:7 
realizing 39:8
really 5:10 12:4 

12:22 19:16
26:12 39:4
realm 33:25
reason 8:20

12:20,22 16:18 
22:6

reasoning 16:11

16:12 22:22
reasons 8:19

21:13

16:14,15,18,23 
23:13 40:16,19  recognize 22:8

rebuttal 2:7
18:23 40:1

Official - Subject to Final Review 

plain 11:23 12:9  press 28:12 
presumptive 

13:3,4 

plainly 13:12 

27:1 

19:13 

Pretextual 13:3 
pretty 34:8 

pleading 27:10 
please 3:10 20:7  prevail 24:19,23 
prevent 6:20 
plenary 20:21 
point 13:9 18:16  prevents 12:4 
primary 23:6 
problem 14:23 

28:4,12 29:11 
29:13 35:10 
38:5 

16:4 19:19 
32:11 

problems 15:19  quick 40:3 

pointed 14:23 

31:25 

points 40:3 
policies 33:13 
policy 7:2 34:8 
poor 37:18,18 
portion 23:10 
position 10:13 

34:12 

possible 33:12 
potential 35:6 
power 4:16,16 
4:18 7:14 8:4 
15:12 22:2,5 
23:11,11 28:9 
29:15 31:12 
33:1,4 35:22 
35:23,23 37:6 
38:23,23 39:5 
41:7,8 

Powerex 26:1,6 

32:13 38:24 
39:21 40:15 
powerless 28:9 
practical 8:15 
precedential 

26:6 

precise 25:16 
preliminary 

premise 37:25 

11:23 

38:1 

presence 5:11 
presented 3:11 

9:20 

presents 34:8 

32:12 

procedure 24:12 
process 35:12 
processing 9:22 
professors 39:12 
profitable 26:15 
prong 4:5 16:22 
proof-of-law

properly 11:24 

39:12 

41:2 

proposing 22:22 
propriety 34:6 
proved 40:10 
provide 18:17 
provides 24:16 

25:5 

provision 24:5 

24:19,23

provisions 17:10 

17:11,21

pulled 19:24 
purely 11:8 37:3 
purpose 20:13 

36:1 39:8 

purposes 31:2 
pushes 30:20 
put 20:19 34:11 
p.m 41:14 
Q

Quackenbush 

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

recognized 
20:21 22:5 
23:9 

recognizes 

7:16 9:7 11:25 
34:24 35:7 
38:15 41:10 

36:23 40:22 
remanding 5:17  retaining 9:13 

25:2 

23:25 

recognizing 

reconsideration 

reconsider 
35:11,13 

32:15 34:6 
37:21 38:4 
remands 7:2 
13:15 14:4,5 
15:11 16:21 
19:22,23 20:12 
21:8,16 22:13 
24:10 25:6 
37:23 38:21 
regarded 41:2 
remark 20:9 
Rehnquist 20:18  remembered 
Rehnquist's 
20:16 21:4 

24:7,24 25:13 
25:21,22 26:7 

reference 3:23 

35:4,5 

4:23 

reiterate 40:5,8 
rejected 17:3 
related 4:10 
relation 33:9,10 
relationship 

23:20 

relevant 17:9 
remain 26:18,25 

reminiscent 

28:15 

removal 4:5 

21:9,17 24:12 
removals 6:21 
remove 6:19 
removing 6:25 

27:3 

remainder 

18:23 

remaining 3:16 

4:25 39:25 

7:7,8 

reviewed 34:7 
rhetorical 36:18 
represent 39:15  Rhodes 1:16 2:3 
request 17:2 
require 38:15 
res 11:2 
reserve 18:22 
resist 36:18 
resolved 5:1 

2:8 3:6,7,9 
5:16 6:9 8:10 
8:25 10:5 11:5 
12:2,11,18 
13:11 14:10,20 
15:2,24 16:8 
16:15,17 17:4 
17:12,25 18:6 
18:15 19:7,18 
39:25 40:1,3 
41:4 

10:11,22 16:6 
36:4 

resolving 9:7 
resources 8:1 
9:16 33:23 
respect 11:15 

remand 3:17,25 
4:1,4,6,11,12 
5:5,6,25 6:5,15 
7:12,17 11:25 
12:9,25 16:19 
16:19 17:18 
19:2,13 22:2,5 
22:13 23:7,11 
23:11,15,18,25  respecting 36:25  RICO 3:16 5:14 
24:8,11,16,25  Respondents 
7:6,11,21 8:21 
9:23 27:16,18 
1:19 2:6 7:12 
25:3,5,18 
26:18 27:25 
17:1,2 20:5 
28:1,14,18,18 
rid 7:21 16:13 
Respondent's 
29:1 31:2,5 
33:15 34:9 
35:8,8 37:16 
38:5 

Rice 24:13,13 

18:1,4 

3:15 

response 41:4 
rest 9:23 
result 13:25 

right 5:12,15 6:1 
8:2 10:25 18:3 
18:11 19:16 

remanded 3:16 

21:11 

retain 5:2 36:21 

28:20 29:23 
40:23 

sent 27:1 34:5 

39:6 

serve 31:2 
served 22:9,11 
set 3:23 12:12 
sets 27:7 

rightly 5:18 
rights 24:5 
ROBERTS 3:3 
retread 9:18 
return 12:21 
13:7 14:14,22 
returning 9:14 
16:25 17:16,20  setting 13:24 
review 3:12 6:2 
Seventh 32:21 
18:10 20:2 
shuttling 31:6 
30:1,5 39:24 
6:8,11 9:10,11 
side 15:23 
11:25 13:1 
40:20 41:12 
15:14 20:11,19  routinely 34:3 
signs 35:13 
rule 3:21 12:12 
similar 23:24 
20:20,22 21:4 
simple 12:17,19 
22:10 24:8,14 
simply 12:8 
24:16,25 25:6 
25:10 27:10 
35:6 36:1,25 
39:8,21 

13:22 22:13 
24:24 32:9 
38:7 

15:5 18:12 
22:17,24 23:5 

reviewability 

8:6 17:17 35:3 
reviewable 5:12 
5:15,23 6:3,6 
7:3,19 13:10 
13:16 14:5 

ruled 9:5 
ruling 27:15 
run 15:10 
S

S 1:18 2:1,5 3:1 

20:4

San 1:16
saying 5:10 6:6 

14:16 35:20
37:22

says 5:13 13:15 

14:16 16:5
21:7 28:7 33:1 
34:4

SCALIA 16:13

16:16 18:3
scholars 32:2
second 23:4

26:12

secondary 23:8
section 11:19

38:12

see 22:6,21

28:13 36:17,18
38:22 39:2
seeking 6:14
seemingly 40:17
seen 17:11
send 13:10
15:12 16:5
sending 10:2
sense 6:4 33:7 

single 3:11 
situation 10:17 
12:23 14:19 
15:9 39:3 

situations 6:12 

6:20 15:10 

slight 19:5 
slightly 34:19 
small-change

13:20 
sole 22:2 
solution 12:17 

12:19 

solve 14:22 

15:18 

soon 38:19 
sorry 19:8 
sort 11:22 
sound 8:1 
source 22:2 
sources 22:5 
Souter 22:15 

23:1,19 36:10 
37:19 

speaking 34:19 
species 29:10 
specific 3:22 

24:18,22

specifically 3:19 
specified 12:13 

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

spirit 22:8 
sponte 7:13 
squarely 5:19 

11:17 

stage 34:7 
standard 36:25 
stare 22:24 40:8 
state 3:17 4:10 
4:24 6:16 7:6 
7:15,22,24,24 
8:17,20,22 9:8 
9:15,18,22 
10:7,12,14,14 
10:20,21 11:8 
13:20 15:12 
16:6 19:4 
26:18,22,24,25 
27:12,25 30:20 
34:1 35:9 
38:21 39:4 
41:1 

stated 28:19 

29:1 

23:25 

24:13 

37:3 

States 1:1,13 

state-law 36:20 

14:1,8 22:14 
22:19 24:9,15 
24:19 25:1 
31:1,1 33:15 
statutes 3:23 
20:13 24:2 
32:9 

statutory 5:24 
9:10 15:7,14 
17:14 23:7 
25:2 40:9 
stays 22:19 
step 33:17 
Stevens 11:22 
12:4,15,19 
13:2,8 16:1,9 

statement 23:17 

submitted 41:13 

statistics 39:12 
statute 13:3,5,15  suggest 18:6 
23:22 36:13 

support 30:13 
suppose 40:20 
Supreme 1:1,13 

18:24 19:8,14 
27:2,5,15 
stop 39:23 
street 17:17 
strong 17:6 34:8  sure 8:10 12:18 
sua 7:13 
subject 3:18 4:1 

15:2 17:5 
19:25 28:2 

18:12 

T

4:3,7,13 5:6,11  Surgeons 29:12 
sweeping 23:17 
5:13,18 6:1 
system 10:21 
11:25 12:24 
14:25 19:12 
21:9,17 25:6 
29:3,4,10,24 
30:23 31:8,11 
31:11,16,20 
32:3,5,17,24 
33:1,7,8,11,14 
33:17,18,19,21 
33:25 34:2,13 
39:4 

T 2:1,1
take 14:17 39:3 
takes 33:11
talk 22:23
talked 35:4,5
technical 17:21

17:22 32:25
34:18,20 38:18 

subjected 39:20 
subject-matter 

39:2 

41:15 

subsection 
19:15,15 

subsections 14:7 
subsequent 23:3 
sue 32:7 

suggested 38:25 
suggesting 

suggestion 17:6 

27:12 

23:22 

suggests 36:6 
supplemental 

3:14 4:12 8:16 
9:4 19:20 
20:11 27:8 
28:6,22,25 
29:9,24 32:23 
33:3 34:14 

supplementary 

19:4 

technically

32:23 33:25

Technology 1:3 

terminology 

3:4 

37:5 

terms 11:8 14:2 

21:8 26:2 
34:11,20 

territorial 33:9 
test 14:3 
text 13:15 
textbook 33:7 
Thank 20:2 

39:24,25 41:12 

THEODORE 
1:18 2:5 20:4 

theory 22:18 
Thermtron 

12:12,16 13:14 
13:14,16,24 
14:9,11,16 
15:5,21 16:2,6 
17:1,3,6,10,13 
17:15 18:1 
19:6,9 20:17 
21:10,22,24

22:7,12,17 
23:2,5,10,24 
24:1 26:11,11 
29:18 30:19 
40:16,18 

Thermtron's 
21:11 23:17 

thing 4:18 17:24 

25:3,9 26:1 
things 13:23 

14:18,24 15:1 
15:3,4 24:6,24 
25:13,21 26:7 
32:7 

think 5:24 8:25 

13:7,17,21 
15:4,15 19:18 
21:22 23:1 
25:8,14,20 
26:1,8,22 27:6 
27:22,22 28:12 
28:13 31:19,22
33:6,9 34:8,19 
35:7,25,25
36:10 38:8 
thinking 8:22 
13:22 25:9,10

third 33:9 
thought 7:15 

16:25 

threw 9:23 
Throw 16:16 
time 8:8 9:14,21 

10:2 18:23 
20:18 21:5 
30:15 32:7 
37:2 

timely 4:3 
tiny 41:1 
today 26:8,9,15

34:19 
told 8:17 
total 12:21 
totally 6:8 
Trademark 

11:13 

transpired 10:3 

trend 25:8 
trial 9:7 30:10 

30:21 

troublesome 

true 10:5 26:4 

37:6 

27:5 

trust 36:2 
try 15:16 
Tuesday 1:10 
turn 28:1 38:23 
turned 25:21 
turns 30:10 

40:24 

twice 17:13 
two 3:25 11:3 
21:16 29:7,7
35:22 37:24 

type 39:13 
types 7:2 
U

understand

understood

12:15

34:12

undoubted 33:4
undoubtedly

29:5

18:8

uniformly 15:6

United 1:1,13
4:24 19:21
24:13 26:23
34:3

universality

24:14

universe 39:16
unusual 14:19

updated 21:23

21:12

22:7

updating 22:23
use 8:1 22:16 
U.S 11:13,16

V

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

9 
96 19:11 
99 8:5 

19:22 41:7 

1367(c)3 26:19 
1441 19:23 
1447 14:7 16:12 

17:10 24:23 
31:4 

1447's 24:7,8 
1447(c) 3:23 4:5 

5:20 12:13 
16:22 17:13 
21:15,15 22:1 
22:13 23:12 
26:20 30:24 
39:2 

1447(d) 3:12,22

6:12 11:24 
12:2,10,12 
13:11 19:23,25 
21:7,14,14

1447(e) 38:12 
1452 24:9,9 25:3 

25:5,8 
18 39:15 
1887 20:14,20 

39:9 

1976 21:2 
1990 29:22 

18:20 20:24,25  20 2:6 39:15 
22:4 36:2 

v 1:6 3:4 4:22,24  words 30:23,25 
31:1 34:16,21 
36:9 

26:23 29:11 
validity 11:1 
variety 32:1 
vehicle 23:15,18 
verb 22:16 
versus 24:13 
view 5:7 11:6 
viewed 21:25 

22:1 

work 10:21 

15:13 

workable 15:7 
15:18 18:17 
40:10,11,14 
Workers 4:24 
19:21 26:23 
34:4 

W 

violating 22:24 
virtually 30:19  world 33:8,10 

worth 8:8 
worthless 8:22 
W 1:16 2:3,8 3:7  wouldn't 7:20 
40:1 
8:14 12:16 
Waco 27:22 
13:2,4,9 26:9 
want 5:25 15:13 
41:2 

18:4 19:3 
wanted 6:13 
18:1 36:17 
39:11 

wants 6:20 
Washington 1:9 

1:18 

wasn't 28:17 
waste 9:15 
water 30:8 
way 6:11,24 
14:24 15:20 
18:2 19:10,11 
23:1 31:9 38:3 

ways 32:1 
went 10:12 

13:14 

weren't 30:10 
Westfall 24:23 
we'll 3:3 12:9 
we're 26:10,15 
White 22:1 
wipe 18:19 
wish 23:23 
wishes 26:14 
woodenly 14:12 

word 32:1 37:18 

14:14 

38:8 

wrong 5:14 6:1 

7:4 28:5 

wrongly 5:18 
wrote 20:18 
25:4 31:24 

X 

x 1:2,8 

Y 

Yeah 13:18 
years 3:21 15:5 

0 

07-1437 1:6 3:4 

1 

100 8:5 
11:20 1:14 3:2 
12:17 41:14 
120 22:10 
1291 16:24 
1331 40:7 
1332 40:7 
1367 29:21,22 

40:6 

1367(a) 3:20 4:9 
1367(c) 3:17 5:6 

2 

2 3:24 

2009 1:10 
22 17:1 
24 1:10 

3 
3 2:4 3:24 
30 3:21 4:4 15:5 

18:20 22:3 

4 

40 2:9 22:3 
40-odd 22:4 

8 

8 11:19 
88 19:11 

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

