Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
               
DONALD C. WINTER, 
: 
       
: 
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY, ET 
                            
AL., 
:
 Petitioners 
              
:
                       
 v. 
:  No. 07-1239 
       
NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE 
: 
           
COUNCIL, INC., ET AL. 
: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 Washington, D.C.
 Wednesday, October 8, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:01 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Solicitor General,

 Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
 the Petitioners. 

RICHARD B. KENDALL, ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf

 of the Respondents. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                    

3


RICHARD B. KENDALL, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondents 

                   

29


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                   

54


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear argument
 first in Case 07-1239, Winter v. Natural Resources

 (10:01 a.m.)

 Defense Council.  General Garre.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

 GENERAL GARRE:  Thank you, Mr.

 Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:

 The ability to locate and track an enemy 

submarine through the use of mid-frequency active sonar 
is vitally important to the survival of our naval strike 
groups deployed around the world and therefore critical 
to the nation's own security.  In this case the Ninth 
Circuit affirmed a preliminary injunction that places 
serious restrictions on the Navy's use of MFA sonar in 
training exercises that in the judgment of the President 
and his top naval officers are in the paramount 
interests of the United States.  That injunction is 
fundamentally flawed for three principal reasons.

 First, it is based on an erroneous 

assessment of the likelihood of success on Respondent's 
NEPA claim.  Second it is based on an erroneous 
conception of the showing of irreparable injury 
necessary to secure what this Court has aptly called 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

"the extraordinary and dramatic remedy" of a preliminary 
injunction.  And finally, it fails to take account the 
vital public interests in conducting the training 
exercises at issue unencumbered by the injunction's 
restrictions.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  General Garre, when you 
address the injunction, do you mean the injunction as 
originally ordered by the district court or are you 
taking account of the modification made by the Ninth 
Circuit, and would you say that the three points you 
just made would apply as well to the injunction as 
modified?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Certainly we would, 

Justice Ginsburg.  Obviously our position on the NEPA 
claim is the same with respect to any aspect of the 
injunction.  So too with the risk of irreparable harm 
which we think Respondents haven't shown.  The Ninth 
Circuit did modify the injunction by issuing a partial 
stay.  It's important to keep in mind that its 
modifications were tied only to a stay.  It didn't 
actually modify the injunction.  So even if this Court 
thought those modifications were appropriate, it would 
have to vacate the Ninth Circuit decision.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Say it again?  I'm not sure 

I --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

GENERAL GARRE:  The Ninth Circuit framed its 
modifications in terms of a partial stay of its decision 
affirming the district court's preliminary injunction. 
That stay and therefore those modifications remained in 
effect only until this Court issued its decision in this 
case.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: 

That's the temporary 

stay pend

ing certiorari, right?

GENERAL GARRE:  Right.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: 

I think what 
Justice Ginsburg was talking about -- and she can 
correct me if I am wrong -- were the modifications from 
the initial preliminary injunction and the modified 
preliminary injunction.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, yes, we are here 
complaining about the restriction on the 2200-yard 
shutdown requirement, where if a marine mammal comes 
within 2200 yards of a naval vessel part of one of these 
strike groups it has to shut down sonar operations, as 
well as the 75 percent powerdown requirement when 
significant surface ducting conditions are present 
regardless of the presence of marine mammals.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  You mentioned the effect on 
naval operations.  On the other side, could you say what 
the record shows about the number of marine mammals that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

are likely to be killed or receive actual physical 
injury if the -- as opposed to some sort of behavioral 
modification, if the injunction is allowed to continue?
 GENERAL GARRE:  The record -- and here I'm 

referring to the environmental assessment and the 
opinion of the National Marine Fisheries Services in the 
petition appendix and the joint appendix -- indicates 
that no marine mammal will be killed as a result of 
these exercises.  The environmental assessment predicted 
there would be eight instances of injurious harm.  These 
eight instances would take place only with respect to a 
common species of dolphins of which there are hundreds 
of thousands in the Southern California Operating Area.

 Now, the environmental assessment also 

predicted that there would be a much greater number, 
170,000 over the course of two years, of so-called Level 
B takes.  These are temporary and by definition 
non-injurious disturbances and that's made clear at 
pages 258a of the petition appendix and page 175 of the 
JA, which make clear that these Level B disturbances, 
the vast majority of the disturbances predicted by the 
environmental assessment, are temporary and 
non-injurious.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Just as to dolphins?
 GENERAL GARRE:  The vast majority of those 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

disturbances, some almost 90 percent, pertain only to 
dolphins.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  And what percentage is 

that of the total population in the area?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, I think that the 

statistics I have indicate that there are more than I 
think 500,000 dolphins on the western coast there.  As 
to -- the number may be actually a little bit lower in 
the Southern California Operating Area.  But this is --
no one suggests that is in any way a threatened species.

 With respect to the species that are 

endangered, threatened, or even strategic under the 
Marine Mammal Protection Act, the National Marine 
Fisheries Services concluded there would be no adverse 
harm on the population level or with respect to annual 
recruitment rates with respect to those endangered or 
threatened species in the biological opinion that the 
district court sustained and that Respondents are not 
challenging on appeal.

 The focus of their claim of irreparable 
injury -- and keep in mind that that environmental 
assessment comes against the backdrop of a 40-year 
history of the Navy's use of MFA sonar in the Southern 
California Operating Area at the same frequency and, if 
anything, during more frequent training exercises than 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

have been conducted in recent years.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You didn't mention the 

564 exposures that were typed Level A in the 
environmental assessment.

 GENERAL GARRE:  With respect to beaked 

whales, Justice Ginsburg, that's correct.  Those 
disturbances are temporary, non-injurious disturbances. 
That's important.  Let me give you the page cites to the 
record on that because it's an important point.  JA 178 
to 180, JA 185 to 188, and JA 198 to 200 discuss each 
species of the beaked whales and explain that the harms 
that are predicted in the environmental assessment are 
non-injurious, temporary harms.

 Now as a policy matter --
JUSTICE ALITO:  In lay terms, what does that 

mean?  Does it mean an alteration of their swimming 
pattern, their migration pattern?  What does it mean?

 GENERAL GARRE:  In most cases it means that 

there's an alerting response, they hear the sound and 
they go in the opposite direction, as one who hears a 
noise that disturbs them would ordinarily do.  It can 
also mean that they could have some temporary effect on 
their feeding or breeding patterns, but it's a temporary 
effect.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  It doesn't necessarily mean 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that there's a physical injury to them, does it?

 GENERAL GARRE:  No.
 JUSTICE ALITO:  It means that they may just 

swim in a different direction.

 GENERAL GARRE:  That's right.  By definition 
only a Level A take involves an injurious harm, that is 
a physical harm which results in permanent damage to 
tissue.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought the 564 number 

was Level A, which I also thought meant exposure 
resulting in severe harm.

 GENERAL GARRE:  It is confusing, 

Justice Ginsburg.  The Navy as a policy matter described 
for purposes of the environmental assessment the Level B 
takes with respect to beaked whales as Level A takes 
because the Navy acknowledged that there is uncertainty 
about the effects of sonar on beaked whales.  But when 
you look at what the environmental assessment says as to 
the actual injuries that the National Marine Fish and 
Wildlife Service and the Navy predicted based on the 
best science available to them and to us today, they are 
non-injurious, temporary exposures, and that is made 
clear at the portions of the JA that I mentioned.

 Now, the Navy -- there is nothing that 

prevents an agency from characterizing the particular 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

harm one way or the other as a policy matter for 
purposes of an environmental assessment.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask this question, 
Mr. Solicitor General.  Is it understood, though, that 
there is a duty to prepare an environmental impact 
statement?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Yes, there is, because we're 

not here arguing that, at this point, that we had no 
duty to prepare an environmental impact statement 
because of the intervening event of the Council for 
Environmental Quality's emergency circumstances 
alternative arrangements determination.  That's the 
pertinent administrative event for purposes of 
Respondent's claim.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Let me follow that. 
You concede that you have to prepare an EIS in light of 
the CEQ's emergency circumstances?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Yes, it's one of the 

alternative arrangements that the Navy agreed to, is 
that the environmental impact statement which has been 
under way will be completed by January 2009 with respect 
to all activities in the Southern California Operating 
Area.  Now, that's not to say that we concede that an 
environmental impact statement was not required -- was 
required at the outset.  The Navy doesn't concede that. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

It litigated this case up to the point of the Council 
for Environmental Quality's determination.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Why didn't you -- I 

mean, you emphasize the level of detail and 
comprehensiveness of the environmental assessment that 
the Navy prepared.  Why didn't you just make -- why 
didn't you just go ahead and do an EIS from the outset 
if you were going to engage in such effort with respect 
to the environmental assessment?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Because the Navy devoted its 
best resources to this and in good faith, as is indicate 
bide the 293-page environmental assessment, concluded 
that there would not be a finding of significant 
environmental impact, and at that point everyone agrees 
an environmental impact statement is not required.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Suppose you have to do it. 
Given all your work so far, how long would it take?  You 
had several months already, so how long?  When could you 
do it by?

 GENERAL GARRE:  It's going to be completed 
by January 2009, Justice Breyer, under the alternative 
arrangements that have been approved --

JUSTICE BREYER:  So we're talking about two 

months.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, at this point we are. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The point that the Navy faced in January of 2008, where 
it had an injunction against its use of sonar in these 
training exercises and only an environmental impact 
statement, it faced, as the Council of Environmental 
Quality found, emergency circumstances in terms of the 
need to conduct these training exercises.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I take it that you're are 
here because you find the decision of the Ninth Circuit, 
and I take it of the district court, prejudicial for the 
government on an ongoing basis; and what are the 
principal reasons for that?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Because of its impact on 

national security, Justice Kennedy.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And what particular 

errors?  The standard for review -- pardon me.  The 
standard for the grant or denial of injunction?  What 
are the principal areas you want to present to us?

 GENERAL GARRE:  I think there are three 

fundamental flaws, as I indicated.  One, we think the 
Ninth Circuit just got the NEPA claim wrong.  The Navy 
is complying with NEPA through the alternative 
arrangements and the regulations, but the CEQ found --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  Where was the statutory 

authority suspending the obligation to provide an EIS? 
You mentioned a regulation.  Where in the statute does 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it say that the Council on Environmental Quality can 
dispense with this requirement?

 GENERAL GARRE:  I think we would point to a 
couple of things.  First, in terms of the statute, NEPA 
says that the obligations of the statute should be 
complied with to the fullest extent.  And it doesn't 
specifically say what happens if they are not followed. 
These are procedural requirements.  Secondly --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, but that's not the 

question I am asking.  I am not asking about the 
consequences of not complying.  I am asking what is the 
statutory authority for the Council on Environmental 
Quality to dispense with the statutory obligation to 
prepare it?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  That's what -- as I 

understand it, that's what you're arguing in effect, as 
an intervening -- as of intervening legal significance. 
And I want to know what the statutory authority is for 
that.  I don't see it in NEPA.

 GENERAL GARRE:  The statutory authority that 

we find in NEPA for the CEQ's regulation providing for 
alternative arrangements is -- first, it's acknowledged 
by this Court that CEQ has rulemaking authority.  The 
Court acknowledged that in Department of Transportation 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

v. Public Citizen.  So we take that as a given.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  As a general 
proposition that's fine, but what's the statutory 
authority for them to engage in rulemaking authority 
that dispenses with the government's obligation to 
comply with an EIS requirement?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, let me -- I'll answer 

the question, but let me be clear:  The government's 
position is that we are complying with NEPA by -- by 
complying with the alternative arrangements provided by 
the Council on Environmental Quality.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But you -- I mean, the 

claim is that you weren't complying with it at the time 
the request for an injunction was brought, and 
everything else is consequent on that.  So I want to go 
back to the point, in effect, at which the claim was 
made that the government is not complying.  One of your 
answers to that is right now, as a result of subsequent 
Council on Environmental Quality action, we're not in 
the same situation that we were in when the suit was 
brought.  And I want to know what the statutory 
authority is for the Council on Environmental Quality to 
take the action with the effect that you claim it has.

 GENERAL GARRE:  And I would point, Your 

Honor, to the language in NEPA that says it should be 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

complied with to the fullest extent possible --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  That --
GENERAL GARRE:  --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  -- seems to cut against 

and I would --

you.  I am not getting it.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, that language, coupled 
with -- which seems to us to suggest that compliance to 
the fullest extent possible would depend on the 
circumstances, coupled with the fact that NEPA doesn't 
impose, doesn't say what the consequences of 
noncompliance would be --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay, but --
GENERAL GARRE:  -- but other --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But why -- I don't 
know if this is Justice Souter's question, but why CEQ? 
I mean, NEPA doesn't really give anybody any regulatory 
authority -- EPA, CEQ.  And it seems to me that CEQ is 
an odd entity to be doing this.  They're more or less an 
office in the White House, rather than a free-standing 
agency.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, this Court has 

acknowledged in numerous cases, Methow Valley and in the 
Public Citizen case a few years ago, that NEPA gives CEQ 
rulemaking authority, and that this Court gives 
substantial deference to the CEQ's rules. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Rulemaking to do what? 

To set up an orderly regime for Federal agencies to 
carry out their obligations under NEPA?

 GENERAL GARRE:  To implement the statute, 

that's right.  And there are a number of important 
procedural requirements that go far beyond what the 
statute requires that the CEQ has laid out in its 
regulations.  One of the regulations -- and this has 
been on the books since 1979 and has been implemented 
some 40 times.  So this isn't something that was made up 
in this case.  It's an established regulatory practice 
under NEPA that where there are emergency circumstances 
an agency can come up with alternative arrangements to 
comply with its NEPA obligations.  And here those 
alternative arrangements were:  One, to complete an EIS 
that is under way for all sonar activities and all other 
activities by the Navy in the Southern California 
operating area by January 2009.  The Navy is going to 
meet that goal.  Two, to adopt the mitigation measures 
spelled out in the alternative arrangements.  Three, to 
provide for public participation so that there could be 
comment on any concerns to marine mammals in the area. 
And four, to provide for research into harms to marine 
mammals.  These were significant arrangements that the 
Navy agreed to. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But what good is it if, 
as I understand it, the whole training program will be 
over in December, and then the environmental impact 
statement, which was supposed to come first, is going to 
come after the whole project is concluded?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, it has -- it's 

important because the environmental impact statement 
that's going to be completed pertains not only to 
COMPTUEX and JTF exercises that will be completed in the 
Southern California Operating Area in the future, but 
all activities.  So that environmental impact statement 
is going to be very meaningful.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Let me -- let me switch 

back.  Chief?

 Let me switch back in time for a second to 

the beginning of these exercises.  One of the -- I mean, 
one of the arguments, and you have alluded to it, for I 
guess the appropriateness of the Council on 
Environmental Quality's action, if it has any power to 
act, is emergency circumstances.  My understanding, and 
correct me if I'm wrong on the facts, is that the 
exercises began in February of 2007.  My understanding 
is that it was in that same month of February 2007 that 
the Navy produced the EA, the environmental assessment, 
so that in effect, as I understand it, the Navy 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

disclosed the fact that it would not provide an EIS at 
just about the same moment that it began the exercises.

 GENERAL GARRE:  I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  And I guess my question is, 

to the extent that there was an emergency, wasn't the 
emergency created by the failure of the Navy to take any 
timely action?  I am assuming in my question that the 
Navy had decided before February 1st, 2007, that it was 
going to have these exercises.  So it sounds to me as 
though that, if there is an emergency, it's one that the 
Navy created simply by failing to start an EIS 
preparation in a timely way at which it tried in effect 
to sort of neutralize by keeping everybody in the dark 
until the last moment.  So, why -- why shouldn't we say 
that -- even assuming the Council on Environmental 
Quality can somehow dispense with the statute, why 
shouldn't we say that there was no emergency here except 
one which was created by the Navy's apparently 
deliberate inattention?

 GENERAL GARRE:  For several reasons, 

Justice Souter.  First, there was a gap between when the 
Navy issued its environmental assessment and when the 
first training exercises began.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, it was a gap of less 

than month, right? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

GENERAL GARRE:  I believe -- I believe 

that's right, but there was a gap and there's no -- I 
don't think there can be any --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  And how long does it -- how 

long does it take -- going back to Justice Breyer's 
question, how long does it take to prepare an 
environmental impact statement?  It takes more than --

GENERAL GARRE:  Well, I --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  It takes more than a month, 

doesn't it.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Sure.  Absolutely.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.
 GENERAL GARRE:  But I don't think --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  And the Navy knew more than 
the 1st -- earlier than the 1st of February that it was 
going to engage in these exercises, didn't it?

 GENERAL GARRE:  It did, and it also knew 

that it was in the process of finalizing an 
environmental impact statement that it prepared in good 
faith, a 293-page statement, which concluded that there 
would be --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  An environmental 

assessment.

 GENERAL GARRE:  An environmental assessment, 

that's right, with the finding of no significant 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

environmental impact.

 This Court presumes the regularity of 

administrative actions.  There's no reason for the Navy, 
particularly on this record, to have assumed that that 
EA would not have been sustained.  The emergency 
circumstances arose in January 2008, when the district 
court enjoined the use of MFA sonar in these exercises 
when the Navy had several exercises.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Sure, but they wouldn't 
have been in the situation in January of 2008 if they 
hadn't been in the situation I described in February of 
2007.  And it sounds to me as though the Navy played its 
cards very close to its vest --

GENERAL GARRE:  Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  -- in 2007.
 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, with respect, I don't 
think that a 293-page environmental assessment with the 
kind of detail and support that this assessment has --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Look, the problem you face 
-- and maybe you're being whipsawed -- is that you are 
effectively estopped from the argument that no EIS is 
necessary by the fact that you have agreed to these 
alternative arrangements.  But you should not be 
estopped from arguing that at the time the EA was issued 
that was not a good faith completion of all the Navy's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

responsibilities.  And that's the argument that is being 
made against you now.  It assumes that the EA wasn't 
enough.  And I'm not sure that we -- that that 
assumption is valid.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, that's right.  And as 

I indicated earlier -- I want to be clear -- the Navy 
believes that its environmental assessment was not only 
prepared in good faith, but was appropriate and reached 
the right conclusions.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's exactly what 

Justice Kennedy started to ask.  I mean, I said why 
doesn't this thing go away after two months.  I mean, 
you've done it anyway, and Justice Kennedy said because 
you want a holding from the Court that will help you in 
other cases because you think what the court below did 
here was wrong.  And you said "three reasons," and you 
got out the first one, and I would like to hear the 
other two.

 GENERAL GARRE:  The other two are:  One, the 

injunction.  Even if you agree with Respondents on the 
likelihood of success of the NEPA claim, it's based on a 
showing of irreparable injury that is fundamentally 
flawed.  The Ninth Circuit and the district court looked 
to whether there was irreparable injury under a 
possibility standard. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Didn't both the circuit and 

the district court, although they mentioned that, in 
fact find that it was -- I forget what their phrase was 
--

beyond question.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Near -- "near certainty."
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  "Near certainty."
 GENERAL GARRE:  They did, Justice Souter, 

and we think --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  There is no -- there is no 

harm.  I mean, the standard may or may not be bright, 
but there is no harm to the Navy in this case from --
from the use of that standard, I take it.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, I don't think that a 
court could say that, Justice Souter, for a couple of 
reasons.

 First, when a lower court applies a 

fundamentally wrong standard to assess -- to make a 
determination, this Court usually corrects that legal 
standard and gives the -- the lower court an opportunity 
to do it again.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, we -- we may, but so 
far as the case is concerned we may -- and we frequently 
do -- say there -- there -- that certainly there's no 
harm in this case, the error was harmless.

 GENERAL GARRE:  And, two, the finding, which 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

is a sentence in the district court decision repeated by 
the court of appeals, of "near certainty of harm to 
marine mammals" is utterly belied by the environmental 
assessment in this case as well as the fact that -- and 
the Ninth Circuit acknowledged this -- the Navy has been 
using MFA sonar in the Southern California Operating 
Area for more than 40 years and no one can point to any 
harm to marine mammals.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Let me ask you --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Garre, could I ask you 

a question?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Yes.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  If this were not a Navy 
case with all of the implications of the Navy, but an 
ordinary case in which it was demonstrated that an EIS 
had to be filed, would it not be normal -- normal action 
to enjoin the -- the government action until the EIS was 
filed?  Because the -- the very fact that you need an 
EIS is -- is because you don't know what environmental 
consequences may ensue.  That's the purpose of the EIS. 
So isn't it the normal practice to enjoin government 
action until the EIS is filed when it is clear there is 
a duty to file?

 GENERAL GARRE:  I don't think it is, 

Justice Stevens.  I think it is -- the normal practice 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

is to require someone who seeks the extraordinary remedy 
of a preliminary injunction to show irreparable injury, 
a likelihood of irreparable injury.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Would the irreparable 

injury have to -- and this just repeats 
Justice Stevens's question.  It is the same concern I 
have.

 Let's assume an EIS is required; let's 

assume it hasn't been prepared; let's assume the 
government project is going to proceed.  You still have 
to show irreparable harm before you can get the 
injunction?

 GENERAL GARRE:  You do.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do you have authority for 
that in the -- are the circuits unanimous on that point?
 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, I don't have authority 

for that precise proposition because I don't --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, yes, you do, but it 

may not be in the circuits.  Our cases say that 
procedural injury alone is not the kind of injury that 
confers standing; that there has to be some concrete 
harm.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  And -- and the only injury 

that -- that follows from the mere failure to file an 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

EIS is -- is a procedural injury that affects the entire 
population.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Then, let's -- let's 

assume standing.  Let's assume standing.  Let's -- let's 
assume people have standing.

 GENERAL GARRE:  I -- I think that that's 

right, Judge Scalia.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, I wouldn't -- look, 
you have an EIS for the reason that the agency itself, 
once it reads it, might decide to do something else. 
That's the whole point of an EIS.  So if the agency goes 
ahead with the action before reading the EIS, it becomes 
committed to that course of action, and the chances that 
the EIS will lead it to back up are the same as the 
chances that any big agency will back up once it's 
committed to a course, namely a lot lower.  And that I 
always thought was the whole harm that the EIS is there 
to stop.

 GENERAL GARRE:  Clearly, the purpose of the 

requirements under NEPA are to ensure that the agency 
has -- is making an informed decision, and here I don't 
think there is any question that the Navy was after its 
293-page assessment.

 I am not aware of any --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  But that -- in effect, you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

are saying the EA is the equivalent to an EIS.

 GENERAL GARRE:  No, I'm not, Justice Souter. 

I am saying --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  What is the difference 

between them?  I -- I assume the difference is the EIS 
is a more comprehensive survey and -- and set of 
conclusions.

 GENERAL GARRE:  That's right, but then --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  So that without the EIS, 

the Navy is acting in -- in a state of -- of some degree 
of ignorance greater than would be the case if -- if it 
had done -- done the EIS.

 GENERAL GARRE:  I -- the EIS --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  And that, I presume, is the 

harm that the -- that the statute is intended to 
prevent.

 GENERAL GARRE:  But it is not a likely --

they have not shown a likelihood of irreparable injury.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  The EA demonstrates in your 

view that the EIS would -- would very likely say that 
this -- this action by the Navy is okay.  And since that 
is the case, there is -- there is no probability of 
irreparable harm; to the contrary, there is the 
probability of no irreparable harm because of the EA.
 GENERAL GARRE:  Well, we agree with that. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

We think it's important, though, to separate out the 
likelihood of success on the NEPA claim with the 
distinct question of whether there is irreparable injury 
and look to the record of whether there is irreparable 
injury.  And we think they have not come close to 
establishing that.  The one final --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Are there any authorities 

in the circuits which would indicate that irreparable 
injury is not required when there's standing, when an 
EIS is required, when an EIS has not been prepared, and 
when the government is ready to proceed?  There is 
always irreparable injury before you can get an 
injunction?  That's what all the circuits say?

 GENERAL GARRE:  Justice Kennedy, I haven't 
completed that -- that research with respect to all of 
the circuits, but I am confident in saying I am not 
aware of a decision in which a court has said that the 
irreparable injury requirement does not have to be met 
or is automatically met.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  The whole theory of the --
of the environmental impact statement is that we don't 
really know what the harm will be.  So how can you say 
that in order to get an injunction against the 
government action you have to prove irreparable harm?

 GENERAL GARRE:  And it may be easier in some 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

cases than others, Justice Stevens.  But I think in this 
case where you have the record that has been compiled, 
they cannot -- they cannot --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But you're really arguing 

that an -- that a temporary statement is enough, will 
always be enough.

 GENERAL GARRE:  We're not taking that 

position, Justice Stevens.  We're taking the position 
that the record in this case does not show a likelihood 
of irreparable injury.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  In all -- in all of these 

cases it is controverted, or in most of them, whether an 
EIS is either necessary -- is even necessary.  So if the 
mere allegation that it was necessary gives rise to an 
allegation of irreparable harm, you are going to get a 
preliminary injunction in all cases?

 GENERAL GARRE:  I think that's right.  I 

think that fundamentally --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought that you were 

not suggesting --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But there is a finding 

that it is necessary, and here we have that finding as I 
understand it.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And you are not 

suggesting that -- that there is a probability of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

success on the claim that you had to file an 
environmental impact statement.

 GENERAL GARRE:  We -- we are contesting 

that.  And if I could reserve the remainder of my time. 
And one must -- I can explain, if you would like, 
Justice.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes.  I thought you 

conceded that point.

 GENERAL GARRE:  If I misspoke, I apologize. 
My point was that the administrative determination that 
is at issue now in evaluating the NEPA claim is the 
finding of alternative arrangements.  The Navy has never 
conceded that it was required to do an EIS at the 
outset.  It simply has agreed to live with the 
alternative arrangements approved by the Council on 
Environmental Quality.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 GENERAL GARRE:  Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Kendall.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD B. KENDALL

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS

 MR. KENDALL:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The fundamental question in this case is a 
very traditional question of equity jurisprudence.  The 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

fundamental question is whether the district court's 
factual finding that the injunction will permit the Navy 
to train and certify its sailors is supported by the 
evidence.  Because if it is supported by the evidence it 
cannot be clearly erroneous.  And if it is not clearly 
erroneous, it cannot be reversed.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Isn't there something 

incredibly odd about a single district judge making a 
determination on that defense question that is contrary 
to the determination that the Navy has made?

 MR. KENDALL:  Justice Alito, I submit not, 

and here is why.  This was an issue of fact.  The 
question was whether, in light of the Navy's past 
training, which was abundantly shown in the record, 
their post-complaint, during the litigation, lawyer-
crafted declarations were sufficiently persuasive to 
undo all that evidence that showed that the Navy had 
repeatedly used safety zones.

 Now, what happened here was that the judge 
was extraordinarily deferential to the Navy.  The judge 
rejected most of the measures that plaintiffs sought, 
crediting where the evidence was not to the contrary the 
declarations of the Navy saying, for example, we need to 
train at night.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I didn't see evidence to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the contrary on two important points.  The first was 
that the Navy had affidavits which says -- they say -- I 
read them.  Maybe I just missed the contrary.  But they 
said that:  You are requiring us, judge, to turn the 
sonar down to six decibels or up to six, whatever, 
whenever we had to run into a situation called layering 
of different temperature levels.  And we tell you, as 
naval officers, that that's just where submarines like 
to hide.  And we also tell you that if we can't train 
people to do that they will miss out on an important 
part of how to find these submarines.
 I saw no answer to that.
 The second thing they said was that:  We're 

willing to turn off the sonar if there's any marine 
mammal that comes within 500 yards, which is a quarter 
of a mile, about.  But you insist that we turn off the 
sonar when any animal comes within a mile and a quarter. 
And that's quite a big distance more.  A lot of animals 
come in there, and if we have to turn off the sonar all 
those times, we are not going to be able to get much 
training done.

 Now, those two things seem to be quite 

important.  And I just might have missed, which I might 
have, which is why I'm asking, what the response was by 
equivalent experts to those points. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. KENDALL:  Justice Breyer, the response 

in the record appears in the after-action reports of the 
eight prior exercises in Southern California.  There 
were four from the series that we challenge and four 
after-action reports, prepared earlier ones.  And you 
will find those in the joint appendix at 326 to -45.

 What the court found was that the Navy had 

trained and certified its troops during those eight 
SOCAL exercises despite the complete absence of surface 
ducting conditions.  And it was conceded --

JUSTICE BREYER:  What do you mean, despite 

the complete absence?

 MR. KENDALL:  Because surface ducting 

conditions are, as it happens, quite rare.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's the whole point. 

That's why I thought they didn't prove anything.  Fine, 
they went on some exercises and they didn't run into 
these layered things.  So obviously they couldn't have 
training.

 MR. KENDALL:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Now, what they are saying 
is, when you do run into that situation you've got to 
train people to deal with it.  It doesn't prove much 
that when you didn't run into it they didn't train 
people to deal with it.  How could they have? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. KENDALL:  Well, the question before the 
court was balancing the requirement that the Navy comply 
with the law and the environmental harms against the 
Navy's interest.  And our point --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, with one 

important qualification.  The question was the balance 
of those equities on a preliminary basis.  In other 
words, before we reach a final decision, we're going to 
prevent the Navy from engaging in the sonar exercises 
that they think are necessary.  Not even after we have 
decided they were wrong, just because we think there is 
a likelihood that they might be wrong.

 MR. KENDALL:  That's quite right.  And of 

course, in this litigation that was the whole ball game, 
because by the time you had reached trial in this case 
all of the exercises --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I thought that 

would have been the whole ball game until I read your 
brief.  Your brief does not spend a page defending the 
decision on the merits of the lower courts.  Nothing 
about emergency circumstances or CEQ.  Instead, you 
raise other arguments on which the district court did 
not rely in finding likelihood of success.  So given 
that, I would have thought we would have a lot more to 
talk about when it gets to the permanent injunction on 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the merits.

 MR. KENDALL:  I respectfully disagree.  We 

took the position from the beginning --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Oh, yes, yes.  You 

certainly raised those issues.  I'm not saying that. 
What I am saying the district court didn't rely on those 
in finding likelihood of success.

 MR. KENDALL:  Well, I also disagree on that 
point.  You will find at page 97a of the appendix that 
was submitted with the petition for certiorari the 
court's declaration that there was no emergency.  You 
will find --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Yes.
 MR. KENDALL:  But that's the question.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That's what the 

district court relied on.  Where in your brief do I see 
a defense of the district court's analysis, as opposed 
to the very coherent argument about Hayburn's case and 
everything else, issues the district court didn't reach?
 MR. KENDALL:  The district court did reach 

the question of whether the Navy could train.  That 
negated any emergency under any definition of the term. 
It doesn't matter whether -- and there was debate about 
this below -- an emergency can be foreseeable and 
expected, as Justice Souter was -- his questions were 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

probing, or whether the emergency can be -- must be 
unexpected.  There was debate about that below.  But the 
position that we took and the position that the district 
court took was there is no emergency.

 The reason there is no emergency is because 

the Navy -- the Navy is perfectly able to train under 
these circumstances.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's what I can't --

look, I don't know anything about this.  I'm not a naval 
officer.  But if I see an admiral come along with an 
affidavit that says -- on its face it's plausible --
that you've got to train people when there are these 
layers, all right, or there will be subs hiding there 
with all kinds of terrible weapons, and he swears that 
under oath.  And I see on the other side a district 
judge who just says, you're wrong, I then have to look 
to see what the basis is, because I know that district 
judge doesn't know about it, either.

 So, the basis so far I'm thinking on this 

one is zero.  That's -- because what you have told me is 
they completed some exercise where they didn't find any 
layering.

 MR. KENDALL:  There was also prior exercise 
in Hawaii.  You will recall from the brief that we had a 
prior litigation that resulted in the consent decree in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Hawaii.  In that consent decree the Navy agreed to train 
with a surface ducting powerdown.  So, they had 
previously told the same judge that they were capable of 
training in surface ducting conditions with that 
powerdown, else they would not have agreed to that 
decree.  There was evidence in the record.

 The problem that the judge had is that the 
Navy cannot be judge of its own cause.  Deference does 
have its limits.  And this judge was in a position of 
reviewing facts of prior exercises and what the Navy --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Generalities.  You see --

of course, I agree with you as a generality.  What I am 
missing here is the specifics, because I am nervous 
about it, as you can see.  And what I am nervous about 
is that there just wasn't enough on the other side, on 
your side.

 MR. KENDALL:  If I may proceed then to the 
safety zone specifics, because that's the other issue. 
Remember there were a number of injunctive measures that 
the Navy objected to in the district court that they no 
longer object to.  They ceased to object to them in the 
court of appeals and they haven't brought them up here.
 So the next issue is the 2200-yard safety 
zone.  Now, first, why was the safety zone chosen?  It 
was chosen because that is the Navy's preferred method 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of mitigation.  They have always mitigated using safety 
zones.  They have preferred to mitigate using a safety 
zone that is 1,000 yards.  We asked for one that was 
2,200 yards.

 The question was, what is the difference in 
training capability in the two zones?  So we looked at 
that.  And where did we look?  We looked at the 
statistics from the after-action reports.

 Now, in this case we had helpful information 
to use, because the after-action reports reveal that the 
effect of widening the safety zone would have been at 
most one more shutdown or powerdown each exercise.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  It would have 

increased exponentially the area that the Navy had to 
scrutinize to determine if there were marine mammals 
there.

 MR. KENDALL:  Incorrect.  Incorrect.  It 

would --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, the 

increase -- you keep saying it's just 1,000 yards.  But 
it's 1,000 yards of circle.  And if I remember high 
school geometry right, that's a squared increase.

 MR. KENDALL:  But think about how this is 
being done.  The way it's being done is that you have 
somebody on the deck with binoculars and they are 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

looking straight ahead and they can either look out 
1,000 yards or out 2,000 yards.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And there are people 

in airplanes?

 MR. KENDALL:  Yes.  Yes.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Not just straight 

ahead.

 MR. KENDALL:  There are people in airplanes 

and they are looking down and they can see as much as 
they can see within that area.  And if they see a marine 
mammal, there will be a shutdown or a powerdown; and if 
they don't see it, there won't be one.  You can only 
shut down or power down when you see one.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I guess my question 
was, that increases the area exponentially that has to 
be scrutinized.  And I don't see why, as you said, that 
was wrong.

 MR. KENDALL:  Because they argued -- and 
perhaps I misunderstood, Mr. Chief Justice, that you 
were referring to their argument -- which is not that 
the area was exponentially larger and that creates 
difficulties of observation; they argued it would create 
an exponentially greater number of shutdowns.  And that 
is mathematically proven false by the after-action 
reports, because it's one per exercise. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

And this judge, keep in mind, had been 

listening to the Navy make factual assertions from the 
very beginning.  And the factual assertions that the 
Navy made at the start of this case about the nature of 
the environmental harms were completely disproven by the 
EA and by the expert evidence that was brought to bear. 
And there are a number of statements that General Garre 
may that I think I should address.

 One of them in answer to questions from 
Justice Ginsburg had to do with the Level A takes on 
beaked whales.  The Navy tries to dismiss those by 
saying we only graded the effects on beaked whales as 
Level A because we did that as a matter of generous 
policy.

 They didn't do it for policy reasons.  They 
did it because that's what the science compels, because 
beaked whales have stranded repeatedly around the world 
correlated -- caused by in the views of scientists, and 
the evidence is overwhelming, by sonar.  And the reason 
that happens especially to beaked whales is because they 
dive for very long periods of time.  And when they dive 
for very long periods of time, and they are then 
bombarded with sonar, which by the way in sound 
intensity, in this courtroom if we had a jet engine and 
you multiplied that noise by 2,000 times, correcting for 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

water, that's the sound's intensity that would be going 
on in the water if you were a marine mammal near that 
source.  The beaked whales, the scientists believe, 
adjust their diving patterns; since they dive down for 
so long, if they come up too fast, they get the bends so 
there is evidence of -- when they do the necropsies of 
these beaked whales, they find hemorrhaging, the 
embolisms in various parts of the bloodstream and many, 
many deaths.  So there is enormous scientific evidence 
that there is a greater harm to beaked whales that is 
caused by sonar and that is precisely why the Navy was 
compelled in the EA to recognize that evidence.

 Now, one thing that was said here which I 

found --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Where in the record -- this 

was the question I asked General Garre.  Where in the 
record is there evidence of -- that beaked whales would 
be killed?

 MR. KENDALL:  The evidence of the prediction 

of the Level A takes, in the --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, what does Level A take 

-- maybe can you put this in lay terms.  Let's start 
with kill.  Where is the evidence that beaked whales 
would be killed?

 MR. KENDALL:  It is in the -- there is a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

table on page 223 of volume 1 of the joint appendix. 
And then there are the discussions of beaked whale 
injuries that General Garre referred to, and what they 
show is that beaked whales will experience the effects I 
described.  But there is also expert evidence in the 
record in the form of a number of declarations by 
scientists who have studied beaked whales for -- for 
quite some time.  The evidence you can find, and it's 
referred to on page 4 of our brief.  Joint appendix 
600-602, 673-89, 738-41, 760, the supplemental excerpt 
of record at 180; also joint appendix 601, 666-667, 
674-76, 680, 685.  And there are a few other references 
on page 4 of our brief.

 I also wanted to talk about the behavioral 

changes, because it's --

JUSTICE BREYER:  This is -- I want to give 

you a chance to say what's so terrible about what 
they're doing.  I will express a little frustration. 
Not your fault.  But why couldn't you work this thing 
out?  I mean, they are willing to give you quite a lot 
of conditions, and you say, well, we have got to have 
more conditions.  And you are asking us who know nothing 
about whales and less about the military to start 
reading all these documents to try to figure out who's 
right in the case where the other side says the other 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

side is totally unreasonable.  And the issue at law 
seems to be something that is going to last for two 
months.

 So -- so, why?  What is so -- what is the 

important thing here?

 MR. KENDALL:  The important thing here is 

that the Navy is focused on having it its way or no way.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that's very 

unfair.  There were six conditions imposed by the 
district court.  The Navy didn't even appeal four of 
them.  They gave up on four out of the six issues. 
That's not insisting on having it their way.

 MR. KENDALL:  No -- I agree, although the 
reason I believe that they conceded those is that the 
record was -- was so overwhelming on each of those 
points, they hadn't even put in evidence to suggest that 
those measures would cause them any problem.  They 
simply didn't have the declaration, and even the --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The other ways it 

struck me how the district court relied on the fact that 
the Navy had taken actions to protect marine mammals in 
the past to say well, there can't be any problem with 
adding more protection.  No good deed goes unpunished.
 MR. KENDALL:  Well, if I can -- if I can 

answer that this way.  We negotiated with the Navy for 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

months and months and months, the Brinpack case, I 
settled with them.  We tried very hard to resolve this 
case, but keep in mind that the Navy until the district 
court ruled refused to agree to any measures that we 
proposed -- any measures.  So it was a binary --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  They had already 
taken actions unilaterally to protect marine mammals. 
Now you say that wasn't.

 MR. KENDALL:  Right.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But they were taking 

some actions.

 MR. KENDALL:  That's right.  And -- and so 

we had a litigation that was focused on were there 
additional actions that should be taken; and there is 
extensive evidence taken and extensive argument and then 
the district court ruled.  And the correct path, if the 
Navy was aggrieved by that decision, was a higher court. 
But instead, in order to avoid the clearly erroneous 
standard -- and remember, that the clearly erroneous 
standard as this Court said in the Anderson v. Bessemer 
City case, says when there are two permissible views of 
the evidence, the factfinder's choice between them 
cannot be clearly erroneous.

 So in order to evade that, and this is 
typical of the tactics that we experienced and the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

uncompromising nature of their approach that we 
experienced, they went to CEQ to try to trump the entire 
injunctive process.  Now that they did without any 
authority in NEPA --

JUSTICE BREYER:  How does the basic thing 

work?  Because to a layperson, when I think of the armed 
forces preparing an environmental impact statement, I 
think, the whole point of the armed forces is to hurt 
the environment.  I mean --

(Laughter.)
 JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't under -- I don't 
understand how it's supposed to work.  Of course they 
are going to do something that is harmful.

 MR. KENDALL:  You know, the whole point of 

the armed forces, I think is to --

JUSTICE BREYER:  You see the point, I am 

trying to give you a -- overstating it.

 MR. KENDALL:  I think the point of the armed 

forces is to safeguard our freedoms causing the least 
damage possible to our environment.  And this Court has 
recognized that repeatedly.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  You go on a bombing 

mission, do they have to prepare an environmental impact 
statement first?

 MR. KENDALL:  No. 

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE BREYER:  No.
 MR. KENDALL:  They don't.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  How does it work?
 MR. KENDALL:  We have never, ever contended 

that any of our proposed restrictions should apply to 
combat at all, and it doesn't.

 This training was planned for a very long 

time.  Had -- there were questions earlier, 
Justice Scalia I think raised a question is the EA as 
good as the EIS?  There is a big, big difference.  There 
are really two, between an EA and EIS.  The substantive 
difference is that an EA doesn't have the same 
alternatives analysis that an EIS has, and the 
procedural difference, which in a country that values 
transparency and ideas and exchange with the public, is 
the notice and comment that EIS requires.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I -- I didn't assert that 
they are -- that they are the same thing substantively. 
My -- my only question is whether your assertion of bad 
faith on -- on the part of the Navy holds water so long 
as they were doing an EA.  If -- you do an EA to see if 
an EIS is necessary.  And you say if there's no -- if 
there is no significant harm to the environment, you 
don't even need an EIS.

 MR. KENDALL:  That --

45

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  And that's how they 

started.  That's step one, and many agencies do that. 
They are authorized to do that.  I don't know why you 
have to attribute bad faith to the Navy simply because 
it began with an EA.

 MR. KENDALL:  That focus is not an element 

of our case.  I was simply responding to 
Justice Breyer's question as, I admit, a somewhat 
frustrated lawyer who tried to work things out as to why 
it happened that they weren't worked out.

 I do want to speak a bit about some of the 

comments that General Garre made in response to 
Justice Kennedy and Justice Scalia's questions about--

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Can I -- can I 

derail you a little bit to get back to the balance of 
equities question?  As I read the opinions most of the 
balancing here was done by the Ninth Circuit, not the 
district court.  I found the district court's balancing 
in only one sentence.  The court after all of its 
prior -- the court is also satisfied that the balance of 
hardships tips in favor -- favor of granting an 
injunction. " It goes on.  But it's just one sentence.

 The Ninth Circuit talked about deferring to 

the district court but in fact it supplied all the 
balance of the analysis for the balance. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. KENDALL:  Well, I -- with respect I 
think the district court spoke in several different 
opinions.  So you can -- you can find out what the 
district court was thinking by looking not only at the 
injunction, but also at the -- at the responsible 
district court denying the motion to vacate.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Suppose it's still 
fair to say that on all of those it focused most of its 
attention on likelihood of success on the merits and 
irreparable harm rather than a balancing of the 
equities.

 MR. KENDALL:  Well I would disagree in one 
respect, which is the court was very focused on which 
measures to impose and which measures not to impose. 
There were, you know, at least 10 pages of her 
injunctive opinion going through that, and each -- and 
the denial of the motion to vacate did the same thing, 
because -- after the Ninth Circuit ordered Judge Cooper 
to issue a tailored injunction, each side briefed very 
extensively, with a huge amount of supporting evidence, 
the issue of which measures should be imposed.  And 
Judge Cooper decided that certain measures would not be 
imposed and certain ones would, and she explained why. 
And she did that against the background of the harms 
that were designed to be prevented.  And so what I would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

submit is --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I think that's -- I 

think that's quite right.

 My question, though, is that at no point 

that did the district judge undertake a balancing of the 
equities, putting on the one side the potential for harm 
to marine mammals that she found -- and that's your 
point about the record -- and putting on the other side 
the potential that a North Korean diesel electric 
submarine will get within range of Pearl Harbor 
undetected.  Now, I think that's a pretty clear balance. 
And the district court never entered -- never went into 
that analysis.

 MR. KENDALL:  There's a good reason why she 
didn't balance that.  And that gets back to my opening 
remarks, which is that the premise of that question and 
why, Mr. Chief Justice, you would be concerned about 
that is that there would be an exposure to that 
submarine, that North Korean submarine.  But the judge 
had made a factual finding, and the factual finding she 
made was that training would not be affected.  So, on 
the one hand, you have a factual finding that there is 
no harm to the training at all, which means that in the 
balance the harms to the environment are much heavier.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Do you -- how much 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

deference, if any, do you think the district court was 
obligated to give to the Navy on that military issue 
about whether the training would be effective?  Is judge 
Cooper an expert on antisubmarine warfare?

 MR. KENDALL:  No.  Judge Cooper, like all 

judges, has to sift through the evidence of experts, and 
Judge Cooper gave great weight to the Navy on everything 
that the Navy said.  But there was a place where she had 
to stop because, after all, she's a judge, and where she 
had to stop was where the evidence belied the 
declarations.  And, you know, this Court has had in a 
number of decisions to confront the question of whether 
wartime exigencies forced the courts to suspend their 
powers of judgment.  I submit that what happened here is 
that this court didn't, and that's what --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Even the district --
even the district court recognized, in the words of her 
opinion, that it would propose "a substantial challenge" 
-- that's a quote -- for the Navy to shift the regime 
that she imposed in the injunction.

 MR. KENDALL:  That's right, and it will in 

fact pose a challenge and the proof is then in the 
pudding, which is that the Navy has now conducted 13 out 
of 14 exercises, the last 8 of which had been conducted 
under this regime as modified by the circuit.  And they 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

have not, as they were invited, had to come back and ask 
for relief despite the fact that they had the 
opportunity.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  By the time this case got 
back to the court -- the district court a second time, 
the President had made a determination that this was in 
the paramount interest of the United States.  The 
Defense and Commerce Department jointly had made a 
determination that this is necessary for the national 
defense.  And it seems to me, even if those 
determinations don't resolve the EIS statement, they 
certainly must be given great weight by the district 
court in determining whether to continue the injunction. 
If you could comment on that, incorporate it also in 
what you were going to say about Mr. Garre's argument 
with reference to the standard.

 MR. KENDALL:  Yes.  First, responding to 

that very point, it's common ground among the litigants 
and certainly with the court that the interests ascribed 
by the President and by every other government official 
with respect to Naval training are of the highest 
importance.  The question was -- and this is the court's 
factual finding, and the question is whether there was 
sufficient record evidence to support it, whether she 
was right that there wouldn't be an adverse effect 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

except for possibly some logistical changes, but no 
adverse effect in terms of an achievement of the 
training.  If there's no adverse effect, then what the 
President is speaking to is speaking past what's 
concerning the court.

 Now, with respect to irreparable harm, the 

argument that General Garre made I think mistakenly 
collapses the normal equity issue in this following 
sense:  Once a plaintiff satisfies Article III, very 
important, and under the Japan Whaling case, the Lujan 
v. National Wildlife case, there is no question that 
these plaintiffs deserve to be in court, and it has 
never been contested.

 Then you move to the traditional equity 

standard for assessing irreparable harm, Hecht v. 
Bowles, but in the environmental area we have a 
decision, the Amoco v. Gambell decision.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Excuse me.  That 

irreparable harm is the assessment of -- for purposes of 
the injunction -- refers to the same harm that is the 
harm which is the basis for standing, is it not?

 MR. KENDALL:  It always does, and the 

question is somewhat different.  And I think, 
Justice Scalia, if you look at your opinion in the 
second Lujan case and you think about the imminence 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

requirement of standing there, what irreparable harm 
adds to that is the traditional need to show that the 
harm you suffer cannot be quantified in damages or it's 
difficult to quantify, and that a remedy at law will not 
achieve the adjustment between the parties that's 
required.  That's what equity does.  Equity preserves 
the positions of the parties.

 And as this Court said in Amoco, 

environmental injury, by it's very nature, can seldom be 
adequately remedied by money damages and is often 
permanent or at least of long-lasting duration, i.e., 
irreparable; that is Amoco at page 545.  If such injury 
is sufficiently likely, therefore, the Court said, the 
balance of harms will usually favor the issuance of an 
injunction.

 Now, there's one other point which was 

briefly touched on here.  Justice Kennedy was asking 
what the circuits have said.  Now, the circuits have 
said different things about irreparable harm.  The 
leading edge of discussion in the circuits began with 
then-Judge Breyer on the First Circuit in the 
Massachusetts v. Watt and Sierra Club v. Marsh cases, 
where he pointed out that NEPA itself has, while it's a 
procedural statute, a substantive purpose, the 
substantive purpose being informed decisionmaking.  And 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

if there is not informed decisionmaking before there is 
an agency committed to action, a harm has occurred. 
That's the harm that --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's unfortunately 

contrary to what our opinions have said, which was quite 
clearly that procedural --

(Laughter.)
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- procedural injury is not 

the kind of injury that gives rise to Article III 
standing.

 MR. KENDALL:  Can I --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  The whole country can 

complain about the failure to issue an EIS.  That is not 
the kind of injury that gives standing.

 MR. KENDALL:  I was only responding to 

Justice Kennedy's question as to what the circuits have 
said.  That's the leading edge of what the circuits have 
said.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't see why you backed 

down on this.

 (Laughter.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Kendall, you 
wanted to respond to some comments by the Solicitor 
General.  I wanted to make sure that you've had an 
opportunity to do that.  I -- you were derailed by 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

questioning, but I know you responded to some.  Are you 
--

MR. KENDALL:  That's very kind.  I think 
there's just one other point perhaps I should make, 
which is there was some discussion of whether NEPA 
actually authorizes CEQ to conduct this kind of 
examination of a district court's ruling.  I submit that 
there is nothing anywhere in NEPA and certainly not in 
the "fullest extent possible" language which gives that 
authority.  This Court has already decided that point in 
the Flint Ridge case, where it said that NEPA does not 
give way unless there is an irreconcilable conflict 
between NEPA and another statute.  They have pointed to 
no such thing.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

Mr. Garre, have you one minute remaining.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE

 ON THE BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

 GENERAL GARRE:  Thank you, 

Mr. Chief Justice.

 First, the Court of Appeals did not 
adequately consider the balance of equities.  It 
completely disregarded the President's determination of 
the paramount interests in these exercises.  It 
disregarded the Chief Naval Officer's evidence on the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

harm of the 2200-yard shutdown, at Pet. App. 344-345A. 
It disregard the harm as to surface ducting, Pet. App. 
33 A.

 Justice Alito, there is -- the EA says, 
quote, on page 200 of the JA, "No serious injury or 
mortality of any marine mammal species is reasonably 
foreseeable because of these exercises."  Page 170 makes 
clear that that applies to beaked whales as well.

 And finally I think I heard my colleague, my 
friend, concede that you have to show Article III injury 
in order to show irreparable injury.  They not only have 
to show irreparable injury to marine mammals, which they 
haven't; they have to show irreparable injury to 
themselves, and particularly as to beaked whales, which 
none of the declarants and none of their members have 
ever asserted they have seen.  They can't possibly 
establish any irreparable injury from any conceivable 
harm to beaked whales, even though the record in this 
case makes clear that all harms to the marine mammals 
that we have been discussing today are temporary 
non-injurious harms.

 We would ask this Court to set aside the 

decision of the Ninth Circuit, which seriously 
interferes with critical training exercises that the 
President, his chief Naval officers have determined to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

be in the paramount interests of the United States.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Can I -- before you sit 

down.  I thought I recalled something in your briefing 
dealing with the beaching -- your friend made a point 
regarding the beaching of beaked whales, that very 
substantially showed that they were caused by sonar. 
You had something in your briefs about beaching, but I 
wasn't sure whether it was beaked whales or only 
dolphins.

 GENERAL GARRE:  It pertains to beaked whales 

as well.  Page 256 of the petition appendix is the 
National Marine Fisheries Service's determination that 
the conditions which led to strandings with respect to 
beaked whales in other parts of the world are not likely 
to lead to strandings in the Southern California 
Operating Area.  Those conditions are taken into account 
in the national defense exemption mitigation measures at 
page 258 of the petition appendix.  There have been 
beachings of beaked whales in Southern California.  None 
have been tied to sonar operations, and that further 
underscores the absence any injury to any marine mammal 
in Southern California despite 40 years of the Navy's 
use of sonar operations in that area.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 The case is submitted. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

(Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

ability 3:10 
able 31:20 35:6 
above-entitled 

1:14 57:2 

absence 32:9,12 

56:21 

Absolutely 

19:11 

abundantly 

account 4:2,9 

30:14 

56:16 

achieve 52:5 
achievement 

51:2 

acknowledged 
9:16 13:23,25 
15:22 23:5 

act 7:13 17:20 
acting 26:10 
action 14:19,23 

17:19 18:7 
23:16,17,22 
25:12,13 26:21 
27:24 53:2 
actions 20:3 

42:21 43:7,11 
43:14 

active 3:11 
activities 10:22 
16:16,17 17:11 

actual 6:1 9:19 
adding 42:23 
additional 43:14 
address 4:7 39:8 
adds 52:2 
adequately 

52:10 54:22 

adjust 40:4 
adjustment 52:5 
administrative 

10:13 20:3 
29:10 

admiral 35:10 
admit 46:8 
adopt 16:19 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

52:8,12 

amount 47:20 
analysis 34:17 
45:13 46:25 
48:13 

23:7 37:14 
38:10,15,21 
51:16 56:16,23 

areas 12:17 
argued 38:18,22 

adverse 7:14 
50:25 51:2,3 
affidavit 35:11 
affidavits 31:2 
affirmed 3:15 
affirming 5:3 
after-action 

agency 9:25 
15:20 16:13 
25:9,11,15,20 
53:2 

aggrieved 43:17 
ago 15:23 
agree 21:20 

26:25 36:12 
42:13 43:4 
agreed 10:19 
16:25 20:22 
29:14 36:1,5 
agrees 11:14 
ahead 11:7 

Anderson 43:20  arguing 10:8 
Angeles 1:21 
13:17 20:24 
32:2,5 37:8,10  animal 31:17 
28:4 
animals 31:18 
38:24 
annual 7:15 
answer 14:7 
31:12 39:9 
42:25 

argument 1:15 

46:2 

agencies 16:2 

2:2,7 3:3,6 
20:21 21:1 
29:20 34:18 
38:20 43:15 
50:15 51:7 
54:17 

arguments 

17:17 33:22 

armed 44:6,8,15 

44:18 

arose 20:6 
arrangements 

answers 14:18 
antisubmarine 

49:4 

anybody 15:16 
anyway 21:13 
apologize 29:9 
App 55:1,2 
apparently 

11:5,9,12
17:24 18:22
19:23,24 20:17 
20:18 21:7
23:4 25:23
51:19

assume 24:8,9,9
25:4,4,5 26:5 

assumed 20:4
assumes 21:2
assuming 18:7

18:15

assumption 21:4
attention 47:9
attribute 46:4
authorities 27:7
authority 12:24
13:12,19,21,24
14:4,4,22
15:17,24 24:14 
24:16 44:4
54:10

18:18 

42:10 

appeal 7:19 

25:12 38:1,7 

appeals 23:2 
36:22 54:21 

10:12,19 11:22 
authorized 46:3
12:22 13:23 
14:10 16:13,15  authorizes 54:6
16:20,24 20:23  automatically
29:12,15 
airplanes 38:4,8  APPEARAN...  Article 51:9 
AL 1:5,9 
53:9 55:10 
alerting 8:19 
Alito 5:23 8:15 
8:25 9:3 30:7 
30:11 40:15,21 
48:25 55:4 

ascribed 50:19 
aside 55:22 
6:19 32:6 34:9  asked 37:3 
41:1,9,11 
56:11,18 

available 9:21
avoid 43:18
aware 25:24

appears 32:2 
appendix 6:7,7 

asking 13:10,10

a.m 1:16 3:2 

40:16 

27:19

27:17

1:17 

57:1

allegation 28:14  applies 22:16 

28:15 

55:8 

13:11 31:24
41:22 52:17

allowed 6:3 
alluded 17:17 
alteration 8:16 
alternative 

apply 4:11 45:5 
approach 44:1 
appropriate 
4:22 21:8 

aspect 4:15
assert 45:17
asserted 55:16
assertion 45:19
10:12,19 11:21  appropriateness  assertions 39:2
12:21 13:23 
14:10 16:13,15  approved 11:22  assess 22:17
16:20 20:23 
29:12,15 

assessing 51:15
assessment 3:22

17:18 

29:15 

39:3

aptly 3:25 
area 6:13 7:4,9 

7:24 10:23 
16:18,22 17:10 

6:5,9,14,22
7:22 8:4,12
9:14,18 10:2 

alternatives 

45:13 

Amoco 51:17 

B

B 1:21 2:5 6:17 

6:20 9:14
29:20

back 14:16

17:14,15 19:5 
25:14,15 46:15 
48:15 50:1,5
backdrop 7:22
backed 53:19
background

47:24

bad 45:19 46:4 
balance 33:6

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

cause 36:8 42:17  choice 43:22 
caused 39:18 
40:11 56:6 
causing 44:19 
ceased 36:21 
CEQ 12:22 

46:15,20,25,25  binary 43:5 
binoculars 
48:11,15,24 
52:14 54:22 
balancing 33:2 

biological 7:17 
46:17,18 47:10  bit 7:8 46:11,15 
48:5 

bloodstream 

37:25 

ball 33:14,18 
based 3:21,23 
9:20 21:21 

40:8 

bombarded 

39:23 

basic 44:5 
basis 12:10 33:7  books 16:9 

bombing 44:22 

35:17,19 51:21  Bowles 51:16 
beaching 56:4,5  breeding 8:23 

56:7 

beachings 56:19 
beaked 8:5,11 
9:15,17 39:11 
39:12,17,20 
40:3,7,10,17 
40:23 41:2,4,7 
55:8,14,18 
56:5,8,10,14 
56:19 

bear 39:6 
began 17:22 

18:2,23 46:5 
52:20 

Breyer 11:16,21 

11:23 21:10 
25:8 30:25 
32:1,11,15,21 
35:8 36:11 
41:16 44:5,11 
44:16,22 45:1 
45:3 52:21 
53:19 

Breyer's 19:5 

46:8 

brief 33:19,19 
34:16 35:24 
41:9,13 

34:3 39:3 

behalf 1:19,21 

beginning 17:16  briefed 47:19 
briefing 56:3 
briefly 52:17 
briefs 56:7 
bright 22:10 
Brinpack 43:1 
brought 14:14 
14:21 36:22 
39:6 

2:4,6,9 3:7 
29:21 54:18 
behavioral 6:2 

belied 23:3 

49:10 

41:14 

C 

C 1:3 2:1 3:1 
Cal 1:21 

believe 19:1,1 
40:3 42:14 
believes 21:7 
bends 40:5 
Bessemer 43:20  California 6:13 
7:9,24 10:22 
best 9:21 11:11 
16:17 17:10 
beyond 16:6 
23:6 32:3 
56:15,19,22 

22:4 

bide 11:12 
big 25:15 31:18 

45:10,10 

called 3:25 31:6 
capability 37:6 

capable 36:3 
cards 20:13 
carry 16:3 
case 3:4,14 5:6 

11:1 15:23 
16:11 22:11,22 
22:24 23:4,14 
23:15 26:11,22 
28:2,9 29:24 
33:15 34:18 
37:9 39:4 
41:25 43:1,3 
43:21 46:7 
50:4 51:10,11 
51:25 54:11 
55:19 56:25 
57:1 

cases 8:18 15:22 

21:15 24:19 
28:1,12,16 
52:22 

13:24 15:15,17 
15:17,23 16:7 
33:21 44:2 
54:6 

CEQ's 10:17 
13:22 15:25 

certain 47:22,23 
certainly 4:13 

22:23 34:5 
50:12,19 54:8 
certainty 22:5,6 

23:2 

certified 32:8 
certify 30:3 
certiorari 5:8 

34:10 

chances 25:13 

25:15 

changes 41:15 

characterizing 

51:1 

9:25 

14:23 21:21 
27:2 29:1,11 
clear 6:18,20 

9:23 14:8 21:6 
23:22 48:11 
55:8,19 

chief 3:3,9 5:7 

clearly 25:19 
30:5,5 43:18 
43:19,23 53:6 
close 20:13 27:5 
Club 52:22 
coast 7:7 

5:10 10:15 
11:3 15:14 
17:14 19:22 
29:17,19,22 
33:5,17 34:4 
34:13,15 37:13  coherent 34:18 
collapses 51:8 
37:19 38:3,6 
colleague 55:9 
38:14,19 42:8 
combat 45:6 
42:19 43:6,10 
come 16:13 17:4 
46:14 47:7 
48:2,17 49:16 
53:22 54:15,20 
54:25 55:25 
56:24 

17:5 27:5 
31:19 35:10 
40:5 50:1 

comes 5:17 7:22 

31:15,17 

chosen 36:24,25  comment 16:22 
circle 37:21 
circuit 3:15 4:10  comments 46:12 

45:16 50:14 

53:23 

4:18,23 5:1 
12:8,20 21:23  Commerce 50:8 
22:1 23:5 
46:17,23 47:18 
49:25 52:21 
55:23 

common 6:12 

25:13,16 53:2 

committed 

50:18 

circuits 24:15,19  compelled 40:12 

27:8,13,16 
52:18,18,20 
53:16,17 

circumstances 
10:11,17 12:5 
15:9 16:12 
17:20 20:6 
33:21 35:7 

cites 8:8 
Citizen 14:1 

15:23 

compels 39:16 
compiled 28:2 
complain 53:13 
complaining 

5:16 

complete 16:15 

32:9,12 

completed 10:21 

11:20 17:8,9 
27:15 35:21 

completely 39:5 

challenge 32:4 

49:18,22 

challenging 7:19 
chance 41:17 

City 43:21 
claim 3:23 4:15 

54:23 

completion 

7:20 10:14 
12:20 14:13,16  compliance 15:7 

20:25 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

complied 13:6 

36:1 

15:1 

comply 14:6 
16:14 33:2 
complying 

consequences 
13:11 15:10 
23:20 

consequent 

14:15 

12:21 13:11 
14:9,10,13,17 
comprehensive 

consider 54:22 
contended 45:4 
contested 51:13 
comprehensiv...  contesting 29:3 

26:6 

continue 6:3 

50:13 

contrary 26:23 
30:9,22 31:1,3 
53:5 

controverted 

28:12 

COMPTUEX 

11:5 

17:9 

concede 10:16 

10:23,25 55:10 

conceded 29:8 
29:13 32:10 
42:14 

conceivable 

55:17 

22:19 23:1,2 
27:17 29:23 
32:7 33:2,22 
34:6,16,19,20 
35:4 36:20,22 
42:10,20 43:4 
43:16,17,20 
44:20 46:18,19 
46:20,24 47:2 
47:4,6,13 
48:12 49:1,11 
49:15,17 50:5 
50:5,13,19 
51:5,12 52:8 
52:13 54:10,21 
55:22 

court's 5:3 30:1  decree 35:25 

determining 

decide 25:10 
decided 18:8 
33:11 47:22 
54:10 

deployed 3:13 
derail 46:15 
derailed 53:25 
described 9:13 

decision 4:23 

20:11 41:5 
5:2,5 12:8 23:1  deserve 51:12 
designed 47:25 
25:21 27:17 
despite 32:9,11 
33:8,20 43:17 
51:17,17 55:23 

50:2 56:22 

decisionmaking  detail 11:4 20:18 

52:25 53:1 

decisions 49:12 
deck 37:25 
declarants 

55:15 

declaration 

34:11 42:18 
declarations 

30:16,23 41:6 
49:11 

36:1,6 

determination 

10:12 11:2 
22:18 29:10 
30:9,10 50:6,9 
54:23 56:12 

determinations 

50:11 

determine 37:15 
determined 

55:25 

50:13 

deed 42:23 
defending 33:19  diesel 48:9 
defense 1:8 3:5 

devoted 11:10 

difference 26:4 

30:9 34:17 
50:8,10 56:17 

26:5 37:5 
45:10,12,14 
deference 15:25  different 9:4 
31:7 47:2 
51:23 52:19 
difficult 52:4 

36:8 49:1 
deferential 

30:20 

deferring 46:23  difficulties 
definition 6:17 

38:22 

9:5 34:22 

direction 8:20 

degree 26:10 
deliberate 18:19  disagree 34:2,8
demonstrated 

47:12 

9:4 

demonstrates 

23:15 

26:19 

47:17 

denial 12:16 

denying 47:6 
Department 
1:19 13:25 
50:8 

depend 15:8 

disclosed 18:1 
discuss 8:10 
discussing 55:20 
discussion 52:20 

54:5 

discussions 41:2 
dismiss 39:11 
dispense 13:2,13

18:16 

dispenses 14:5 

courtroom 

Cooper 47:18,22 

39:24 

49:4,5,7 

courts 33:20 

correct 5:12 8:6 

49:13 

conception 3:24 
concern 24:6 
concerned 22:22  corrects 22:18 

17:21 43:16 

48:17 

concerning 51:5  Council 1:9 3:5 
concerns 16:22 
concluded 7:14 

correcting 39:25 

34:11,17 46:18 
50:22 54:7 
correlated 39:18  crafted 30:16 
create 38:22 
created 18:6,11 

11:12 17:5 
19:20 

conclusions 21:9 

26:7 

concrete 24:21 
conditions 5:21 
32:10,14 36:4 
41:21,22 42:9 
56:13,16 

conduct 12:6 

54:6 

conducted 8:1 

49:23,24 

conducting 4:3 
confers 24:21 
confident 27:16 
conflict 54:12 
confront 49:12 
confusing 9:12 
consent 35:25 

10:10 11:1 
12:4 13:1,12 
14:11,19,22 
17:18 18:15 
29:15 

counsel 29:17 
54:15 56:24 
country 45:14 

53:12 

couple 13:4 

22:14 

coupled 15:6,9 
course 6:16 

25:13,16 33:14 
36:12 44:12 

court 1:1,15 3:9 
3:25 4:8,21 5:5 
7:18 12:9 
13:24,25 15:21 
15:24 20:2,7 
21:14,15,23 
22:2,14,16,18 

18:18 

creates 38:21 
crediting 30:22 
critical 3:13 

55:24 
cut 15:4 
D

D 3:1
damage 9:7

damages 52:3

44:20

52:10

dark 18:13
deal 32:23,25
dealing 56:4
deaths 40:9
debate 34:23

35:2

December 17:3
decibels 31:5

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

error 22:24 
36:10 49:24 
errors 12:15 
54:24 55:7,24 
especially 39:20 
exigencies 49:13 
ESQ 1:18,21 2:3  expected 34:25 
experience 41:4 
experienced 
43:25 44:2 

establish 55:17 
established 

2:5,8 

expert 39:6 41:5 

evidence 30:4,4 

exposures 8:3 

16:11 

establishing 

27:6 

estopped 20:21 

20:24 
ET 1:4,9 
evade 43:24 
evaluating 

29:11 

event 10:10,13 
everybody 

18:13 

30:17,22,25 
36:6 39:6,19 
40:6,9,12,17 
40:19,23 41:5 
41:8 42:16 
43:15,22 47:20 
49:6,10 50:24 
54:25 

exactly 21:10 
examination 

54:7 

example 30:23 
excerpt 41:10 
exchange 45:15 
Excuse 51:18 
exemption 

56:17 

exercise 35:21 
35:23 37:12 
38:25 

exercises 3:17 
4:4 6:9 7:25 
12:3,6 17:9,16 
17:22 18:2,9 
18:23 19:16 
20:7,8 32:3,9 
32:17 33:9,16 

experts 31:25 

explain 8:11 

49:4 

49:6 

29:5 

explained 47:23 
exponentially 

37:14 38:15,21 
38:23 

exposure 9:10 

48:18 

9:22 

express 41:18 
extensive 43:15 

43:15 

extensively 

47:20 

extent 13:6 15:1 
15:8 18:5 54:9 
extraordinarily 

30:20 

extraordinary 

4:1 24:1 
F 

face 20:19 35:11 
faced 12:1,4 
fact 15:9 18:1 
20:22 22:3 
23:4,18 30:12 
42:20 46:24 
49:22 50:2 
factfinder's 

43:22 

facts 17:21 

36:10 

factual 30:2 

39:2,3 48:20 

disproven 39:5 
disregard 55:2 
disregarded 

54:23,25 

distance 31:18 
distinct 27:3 
district 4:8 5:3 
7:18 12:9 20:6 
21:23 22:2 
23:1 30:1,8 
33:22 34:6,16 
34:17,19,20 
35:3,15,17 
36:20 42:10,20 
43:3,16 46:18 
46:18,24 47:2 
47:4,6 48:5,12 
49:1,16,17 
50:5,12 54:7 
disturbances 

6:18,20,21 7:1 
8:7,7 

disturbs 8:21 
dive 39:21,21 

40:4 

diving 40:4 
documents 

41:24 

doing 15:18 

41:18 45:21 

dolphins 6:12,24 

7:2,7 56:9 

DONALD 1:3 
dramatic 4:1 
ducting 5:21 

32:10,13 36:2 
36:4 55:2 

duration 52:11 
duty 10:5,9 

23:23 

D.C 1:11,19 

E 
E 2:1 3:1,1 
EA 17:24 20:5 

20:24 21:2 
26:1,19,24 

39:6 40:12 
45:9,11,12,21 
45:21 46:5 
55:4 

earlier 19:15 

21:6 32:5 45:8 

easier 27:25 
edge 52:20 

53:17 

effect 5:5,23 

emphasize 11:4 
endangered 

7:12,16 

enemy 3:10 
engage 11:8 
14:4 19:16 

engaging 33:9 
engine 39:24 
enjoin 23:17,21 
enjoined 20:7 
enormous 40:9 

8:22,24 13:17 
14:16,23 17:25  ensue 23:20 
ensure 25:20 
18:12 25:25 
entered 48:12 
37:11 50:25 
entire 25:1 44:2 
51:2,3 
entity 15:18 
effective 49:3 
effectively 20:21  environment 
effects 9:17 
39:12 41:4 

44:9,20 45:23 
48:24 

effort 11:8 
eight 6:10,11 

32:3,8 

EIS 10:16 11:7 

12:24 14:6 
16:15 18:1,11 
20:21 23:15,17 
23:19,20,22 
24:8 25:1,9,11 
25:12,14,17 
26:1,5,9,12,13 
26:20 27:10,10 
28:13 29:13 
45:10,11,13,16 
45:22,24 50:11 
53:13 

either 28:13 
35:18 38:1 
electric 48:9 
element 46:6 
embolisms 40:8 
emergency 

10:11,17 12:5 
16:12 17:20 
18:5,6,10,17 
20:5 33:21 
34:11,22,24 
35:1,4,5 

environmental 

6:5,9,14,22 
7:21 8:4,12 
9:14,18 10:2,5 
10:9,11,20,24 
11:2,5,9,12,14 
11:15 12:3,4 
13:1,12 14:11 
14:19,22 17:3 
17:7,11,19,24 
18:15,22 19:7 
19:19,22,24 
20:1,17 21:7 
23:3,19 27:21 
29:2,16 33:3 
39:5 44:7,23 
51:16 52:9 
EPA 15:17 
equities 33:7 
46:16 47:11 
48:6 54:22 
equity 29:25 

51:8,14 52:6,6 
equivalent 26:1 

31:25 

erroneous 3:21 

3:23 30:5,6 
43:18,19,23 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

22:17 28:18 
further 56:20 
future 17:10 

G 

G 1:18 2:3,8 3:1 

3:6 54:17 

Gambell 51:17 
game 33:14,18 
gap 18:21,24 

19:2 

19:5,16 24:10 
28:15 31:20 
33:8 40:1 42:2 
44:13 47:16 
50:15 

13:3,15,21 
14:2,7,24 15:3 
15:6,13,21 
16:4 17:6 18:3 
18:20 19:1,8 
19:11,13,17,24  good 11:11 17:1 
20:14,16 21:5 
21:19 22:7,13 
22:25 23:12,24 
24:13,16,23 
25:6,19 26:2,8 
26:13,17,25 
27:14,25 28:7 
28:17 29:3,9 
29:18 39:7 
40:16 41:3 
46:12 51:7 
53:24 54:19 
56:10 

19:19 20:25 
21:8 42:23 
45:10 48:14 
government 
12:10 14:17 
23:17,21 24:10 
27:11,24 50:20 

graded 39:12 
grant 12:16 
granting 46:21 
great 49:7 50:12 
greater 6:15 
26:11 38:23 
40:10 

government's 

14:5,8 

generality 36:12 
generous 39:13  GREGORY 

1:18 2:3,8 3:6 
54:17 

getting 15:5 
Ginsburg 4:6,14  ground 50:18 
groups 3:13 

guess 17:18 18:4 

5:19 

38:14 

36:11 

Generalities 

Garre 1:18 2:3,8 
3:5,6,8 4:6,13 
5:1,9,15 6:4,25 
7:5 8:5,18 9:2 
9:5,12 10:7,18 
11:10,20,25 
12:12,18 13:3 
13:15,21 14:7 
14:24 15:3,6 
15:13,21 16:4 
17:6 18:3,20 
19:1,8,11,13 
19:17,24 20:14  geometry 37:22 
20:16 21:5,19 
22:7,13,25 
23:10,12,24 
24:13,16,23 
25:6,19 26:2,8 
26:13,17,25 
27:14,25 28:7 
28:17 29:3,9 
29:18 39:7 
40:16 41:3 
46:12 51:7 
54:16,17,19 
56:10 

5:11 8:2,6 9:9 
9:13 16:1 17:1 
22:5 28:19,24 
29:7 39:10 
give 8:8 15:16 

H 

hand 48:22 

41:16,20 44:17 
49:2 54:12 
given 11:17 14:1  happened 30:19 
33:23 50:12 
gives 15:23,24 
22:19 28:14 
53:9,14 54:9 

48:20,22 50:23 

54:21 

failing 18:11 
fails 4:2 
failure 18:6 

24:25 53:13 

fair 47:8 
faith 11:11 

19:20 20:25 
21:8 45:20 
46:4 

false 38:24 
far 11:17 16:6 
22:22 35:19 

fast 40:5 
fault 41:19 
favor 46:21,21 

52:14 

February 17:22 

17:23 18:8 
19:15 20:11 
Federal 16:2 
feeding 8:23 
figure 41:24 
file 23:23 24:25 

29:1 

Fish 9:19 
Fisheries 6:6 
7:14 56:12 
flawed 3:20 

21:23 

flaws 12:19 
Flint 54:11 
focus 7:20 46:6 
focused 42:7 

43:13 47:8,13 

follow 10:15 
followed 13:7 
following 51:8 
follows 24:25 
forced 49:13 
forces 44:7,8,15 

44:19 

foreseeable 
34:24 55:7 
forget 22:3 
form 41:6 
found 12:5,22 
32:7 40:14 
46:18 48:7 

filed 23:16,18,22  four 16:23 32:4 
final 27:6 33:8 
32:4 42:10,11 
finalizing 19:18 
finally 4:2 55:9 
find 12:8 13:22 

framed 5:1 
freedoms 44:19 
free-standing 

15:19 

frequency 7:24 
frequent 7:25 
frequently 

22:22 

22:3 31:11 
32:6 34:9,12 
35:21 40:7 
41:8 47:3 

finding 11:13 
19:25 22:25 
28:21,22 29:12 
30:2 33:23 
34:7 48:20,20 
48:22 50:23 
fine 14:3 32:16 
first 3:4,21 13:4 

13:23 17:4 
18:21,23 21:17 
22:16 31:1 
36:24 44:24 
50:17 52:21 

54:17 

friend 55:10 
56:4 
frustrated 46:9  Garre's 50:15 
GEN 1:18 2:3,8 
frustration 
41:18 
fullest 13:6 15:1  general 1:18 3:5 
3:8 4:6,13 5:1 
15:8 54:9 
5:9,15 6:4,25 
7:5 8:5,18 9:2 
9:5,12 10:4,7 
10:18 11:10,20 
11:25 12:12,18 

fundamental 
12:19 29:24 
30:1 

fundamentally 

3:20 21:22 

go 8:20 11:7 
14:15 16:6 
21:12 44:22 

goal 16:19 
goes 25:11 42:23 

46:22 

going 11:8,20 
16:18 17:4,8 
17:12 18:9 

46:10 49:14 
happens 13:7 
32:14 39:20 
Harbor 48:10 
hard 43:2 
hardships 46:21 
harm 4:16 6:10 
7:15 9:6,7,11 
10:1 22:10,11 
22:24 23:2,8 
24:11,22 25:17 
26:15,23,24 
27:22,24 28:15 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

4:16,18,21 5:3 
5:13,14 6:3 
12:2,16 14:14 
21:20 24:2,12 
27:13,23 28:16 
30:2 33:25 
46:22 47:5,19 
49:20 50:13 
51:20 52:15 

21:22,24 24:2 
24:3,4,11 
26:18,23,24 
27:3,4,8,12,18 
27:24 28:10,15 
47:10 51:6,15 
51:19 52:1,12 
52:19 55:11,12 
55:13,17 

injunction's 4:4 
injunctive 36:19 

issuance 52:14 
issue 4:4 29:11 

44:3 47:16 
injuries 9:19 

injurious 6:10 

41:3 

9:6 

30:12 36:18,23 
42:1 47:19,21 
49:2 51:8 
53:13 

issued 5:5 18:22 

42:11 

20:24 

issues 34:5,19 

injury 3:24 6:2 
7:21 9:1 21:22 
21:24 24:2,3,5 
24:20,20,24 
25:1 26:18 
27:3,5,9,12,18 
28:10 52:9,12 
53:8,9,14 55:5  JA 6:20 8:9,10 
8:10 9:23 55:5 
55:10,11,12,13 
January 10:21 
55:17 56:21 

issuing 4:18 
i.e 52:11 
J 

insist 31:16 
insisting 42:12 
instances 6:10 

intended 26:15 
intensity 39:24 

interest 33:4 

6:11 

40:1 

50:7 

interests 3:19 

4:3 50:19 
54:24 56:1 

interferes 55:24 
intervening 

10:10 13:18,18 

invited 50:1 
involves 9:6 
irreconcilable 

54:12 

irreparable 3:24 

4:16 7:20 

11:21 12:1 
16:18 20:6,10 

Japan 51:10 
jet 39:24 
joint 6:7 32:6 

41:1,9,11 
jointly 50:8 
JTF 17:9 
judge 25:7 30:8 
30:19,20 31:4 
35:16,18 36:3 
36:7,8,9 39:1 
47:18,22 48:5 
48:19 49:3,5,7 
49:9 

judges 49:6 
judgment 3:17 

jurisprudence 

49:14 

29:25 

Justice 1:19 3:3 

40:10 45:23 
47:10 48:6,23 
51:6,15,19,20 
51:21 52:1,3 
52:19 53:2,3 
55:1,2,18 

harmful 44:13 
harmless 22:24 
harms 8:11,13 

16:23 33:3 
39:5 47:24 
48:24 52:14 
55:19,21 

Hawaii 35:24 

36:1 

Hayburn's 

34:18 

hear 3:3 8:19 

21:17 

heard 55:9 
hears 8:20 
heavier 48:24 
Hecht 51:15 
help 21:14 
helpful 37:9 
hemorrhaging 

40:7 

hide 31:9 
hiding 35:13 
high 37:21 
higher 43:17 
highest 50:21 
history 7:23 
holding 21:14 
holds 45:20 
Honor 14:25 
House 15:19 
huge 47:20 
hundreds 6:12 
hurt 44:8 
I 

ideas 45:15 
ignorance 26:11 
III 51:9 53:9 

55:10 

imminence 

51:25 

impact 10:5,9 

10:20,24 11:14 
11:15 12:3,12 
17:3,7,11 19:7 
19:19 20:1 
27:21 29:2 
44:7,23 

implement 16:4 
implemented 

16:9 

implications 

23:14 

importance 

50:22 

important 3:12 
4:19 8:8,9 16:5 
17:7 27:1 31:1 
31:10,23 33:6 
42:5,6 51:10 
impose 15:10 

47:14,14 

imposed 42:9 

47:21,23 49:20 

inattention 

incorporate 

18:19 

50:14 

37:17 

37:22 

Incorrect 37:17 

increase 37:20 

increased 37:14 
increases 38:15 
incredibly 30:8 
indicate 7:6 
11:11 27:8 

indicated 12:19 

21:6 

indicates 6:7 
information 

37:9 

informed 25:21 

52:25 53:1 
initial 5:13 
injunction 3:15 
3:19 4:2,7,7,11 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

3:9 4:6,14,24 
5:7,10,11,23 
6:24 7:3 8:2,6 
8:15,25 9:3,9 
9:13 10:3,15 
11:3,16,21,23 
12:7,13,14,23 
13:9,16 14:2 
14:12 15:2,4 
15:12,14,15 
16:1 17:1,13 
18:4,21,24 
19:4,5,9,12,14 
19:22 20:9,15 
20:19 21:10,11 
21:13 22:1,5,6 
22:7,9,14,21 
23:9,10,13,25 
24:4,6,14,18 
24:24 25:3,8 
25:25 26:2,4,9 
26:14,19 27:7 
27:14,20 28:1 
28:4,8,11,19 
28:21,24 29:6 
29:7,17,19,22 
30:7,11,25 
32:1,11,15,21 
33:5,17 34:4 
34:13,15,25 
35:8 36:11 
37:13,19 38:3 
38:6,14,19 
39:10 40:15,21 
41:16 42:8,19 
43:6,10 44:5 
44:11,16,22 
45:1,3,9,17 
46:1,8,13,13 
46:14 47:7 
48:2,17,25 
49:16 50:4 
51:18,24 52:17 
53:4,8,12,16
53:19,22 54:15 
54:20 55:4 
56:2,24 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

live 29:14 
locate 3:10 
logistical 51:1 
long 11:17,18 

Marsh 52:22 

19:4,5,6 39:21  Massachusetts 
39:22 40:5 
45:7,20 

52:22 

43:7 48:7 55:6  mile 31:16,17
55:12,19 56:12  military 41:23
56:21 

49:2

mind 4:19 7:21 

39:1 43:3

38:24 

minute 54:16
mathematically  missed 31:3,23
missing 36:13
matter 1:14 8:14  mission 44:23
misspoke 29:9
mistakenly 51:7
misunderstood

9:13 10:1 
34:23 39:13 
57:2 

mean 4:7 8:16 

38:19

8:16,17,22,25  mitigate 37:2
mitigated 37:1
11:4 14:12 
mitigation 16:19
15:16 17:16 
21:11,12 22:10 
32:11 41:20 
44:9 

modification 4:9

37:1 56:17

6:3

longer 36:21 
long-lasting 

52:11 

look 9:18 20:19 
25:8 27:4 35:9 
35:16 37:7 
38:1 51:24 
looked 21:23 

37:6,7 

looking 38:1,9 

47:4 

Los 1:21 
lot 25:16 31:18  meaningful 

33:24 41:20 

17:12 

lower 7:8 22:16  means 8:18 9:3 

22:19 25:16 
33:20 

48:23 

meant 9:10 

modifications
4:20,22 5:2,4 
5:12

modified 4:12

5:13 49:25

Lujan 51:10,25  measures 16:19  modify 4:18,21
moment 18:2,14
30:21 36:19 
money 52:10
42:17 43:4,5 
47:14,14,21,22  month 17:23
56:17 
18:25 19:9

majority 6:21

6:25

M

making 25:21

30:8

mammal 5:17

6:8 7:13 31:15 
38:11 40:2
55:6 56:21

mammals 5:22
5:25 16:22,24
23:3,8 37:15 
42:21 43:7 
48:7 55:12,19 
marine 5:17,22 
5:25 6:6,8 7:13 
7:13 9:19 
16:22,23 23:3 
23:8 31:14 
37:15 38:10 
40:2 42:21 

months 11:18,24

21:12 42:3
43:1,1,1

meet 16:19 
members 55:15 
mention 8:2 
mentioned 5:23  mortality 55:6
motion 47:6,17
move 51:14
multiplied 39:25

9:23 12:25 
22:2 

mere 24:25 

28:14

merits 33:20
34:1 47:9

met 27:18,19
method 36:25
Methow 15:22
MFA 3:16 7:23 

20:7 23:6

mid-frequency

3:11 

N

N 2:1,1 3:1 
national 6:6
7:13 9:19
12:13 50:9
51:11 56:12,17

nation's 3:14
Natural 1:8 3:4 
nature 39:4 44:1 

migration 8:17 

52:9

K 

keep 4:19 7:21 

37:20 39:1 
43:3 

keeping 18:13 
Kendall 1:21 2:5 

29:19,20,22 
30:11 32:1,13 
32:20 33:1,13 
34:2,8,14,20 
35:23 36:17 
37:17,23 38:5 
38:8,18 40:19 
40:25 42:6,13 
42:24 43:9,12 
44:14,18,25 
45:2,4,25 46:6 
47:1,12 48:14 
49:5,21 50:17 
51:22 53:11,15 
53:22 54:3 

Kennedy 12:7 

12:13,14 21:11 
21:13 23:9 
24:4,14 25:3 
27:7,14 46:13 
50:4 52:17 
Kennedy's 

53:16 

kill 40:23 
killed 6:1,8 
40:18,24 
kind 20:18 

24:20 53:9,14 
54:3,6 

kinds 35:14 
knew 19:14,17 
know 13:19 

14:21 15:15 
23:19 27:22 
35:9,17,18 
41:22 44:14 
46:3 47:15 
49:11 54:1 

Korean 48:9,19 

L 

laid 16:7 
language 14:25 

15:6 54:9 
larger 38:21 
Laughter 44:10 

53:7,21 

law 33:3 42:1 

lawyer 30:15 

52:4 

46:9 

lay 8:15 40:22 
layered 32:18 
layering 31:6 

35:22 

layers 35:13 
layperson 44:6 
lead 25:14 56:15 
leading 52:20 

53:17 

led 56:13 
legal 13:18 

22:18 

let's 24:8,8,9 
25:3,3,4,4,4 
40:22 

level 6:16,20 

7:15 8:3 9:6,10 
9:14,15 11:4 
39:10,13 40:20 
40:21 

levels 31:7 
light 10:16 

30:13 

likelihood 3:22 

21:21 24:3 
26:18 27:2 
28:9 33:12,23 
34:7 47:9 
limits 36:9 
listening 39:2 
litigants 50:18 
litigated 11:1 
litigation 30:15 

33:14 35:25 
43:13 

little 7:8 41:18 

46:15 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

naval 3:12,18 
5:18,24 31:8 
35:9 50:21 
54:25 55:25 
Navy 1:4 9:13 

9:16,20,24 
10:19,25 11:6 
11:10 12:1,20 
16:17,18,25 
17:24,25 18:6 
18:8,11,22 
19:14 20:3,8 
20:12 21:6 
22:11 23:5,13 
23:14 25:22 
26:10,21 29:12 
30:2,10,17,20 
30:23 31:2 
32:7 33:2,9 
34:21 35:6,6 
36:1,8,10,20 
37:14 39:2,4 
39:11 40:11 
42:7,10,21,25 
43:3,17 45:20 
46:4 49:2,7,8 
49:19,23 

13:20,22 14:9 
14:25 15:9,16 
15:23 16:3,12 
16:14 21:21 
25:20 27:2 
29:11 44:4 
52:23 54:5,8 
54:11,13 

nervous 36:13 

36:14 

obviously 4:14 

38:22 

32:18 

occurred 53:2 
October 1:12 
odd 15:18 30:8 
office 15:19 
officer 35:10 
officers 3:18 
31:8 55:25 

neutralize 18:13  Officer's 54:25 
never 29:12 45:4  official 50:20 

48:12,12 51:13  Oh 34:4 

okay 14:2 15:12 

19:12 26:21 
once 25:10,15 

51:9 

night 30:24 
Ninth 3:14 4:9 
4:17,23 5:1 
12:8,20 21:23 
23:5 46:17,23 
47:18 55:23 

ones 32:5 47:23 
ongoing 12:10 
noise 8:21 39:25  opening 48:15 
operating 6:13 
noncompliance 
7:9,24 10:22 
16:18 17:10 
23:6 56:16 

non-injurious 

15:11 

6:18,23 8:7,13 
9:22 55:21 

outset 10:25 
11:7 29:14 
overstating 

44:17 

overwhelming 
39:19 42:15 

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 6:19 

8:8 33:19 34:9 
41:1,9,13
52:12 55:5,7
56:11,18

pages 6:19 47:15 
paramount 3:18

50:7 54:24
56:1

pardon 12:15
part 5:18 31:11 

45:20

partial 4:18 5:2 
participation

particular 9:25

16:21

12:14

particularly
20:4 55:14
parties 52:5,7
parts 40:8 56:14 
path 43:16
pattern 8:17,17
patterns 8:23

40:4

Pearl 48:10
pending 5:8
people 25:5

31:10 32:23,25
35:12 38:3,8

percent 5:20 7:1 
percentage 7:3
perfectly 35:6
periods 39:21,22
permanent 9:7
33:25 52:11

permissible

43:21

permit 30:2 
persuasive 

30:16 

pertain 7:1 
pertains 17:8 

56:10 

pertinent 10:13 
Pet 55:1,2
petition 6:7,19 
34:10 56:11,18
Petitioners 1:6 
1:20 2:4,9 3:7 
54:18 

phrase 22:3 
physical 6:1 9:1 

9:7 

place 6:11 49:8 
places 3:15 
plaintiff 51:9 
plaintiffs 30:21 

51:12 

planned 45:7 
plausible 35:11 
played 20:12 
please 3:9 29:23 
point 8:9 10:8 

11:1,14,25
12:1 13:3 
14:16,24 23:7 
24:15 25:11 
29:8,10 32:15 
33:4 34:9 44:8 
44:14,16,18
48:4,8 50:18 
52:16 54:4,10
56:4 

pointed 52:23 

54:13 

points 4:10 31:1 

31:25 42:16 

policy 8:14 9:13 
10:1 39:14,15
population 7:4 

7:15 25:2 

portions 9:23 
pose 49:22 
position 4:14 

normal 23:16,16 
23:21,25 51:8 
Navy's 3:16 7:23  North 48:9,19 

18:18 20:25 
30:13 33:4 
36:25 56:22 
near 22:5,5,6 

23:2 40:2 

necessarily 8:25 
necessary 3:25 

20:22 28:13,13 
28:14,22 33:10 
45:22 50:9 

necropsies 40:6 
need 12:6 23:18 

30:23 45:24 
52:2 

negated 34:22 
negotiated 

42:25 

NEPA 3:23 4:14 
12:20,21 13:4 

notice 45:16 
number 5:25 
6:15 7:8 9:9 
16:5 36:19 
38:23 39:7 
41:6 49:12 

O 
O 2:1 3:1 
oath 35:15 
object 36:21,21 
objected 36:20 
obligated 49:2 
obligation 12:24 

13:13 14:5 

obligations 13:5 

16:3,14 

observation 

operations 5:19 
5:24 56:20,23 
opinion 6:6 7:17 

47:16 49:18 
51:24 

opinions 46:16 

47:3 53:5 
opportunity 
22:19 50:3 
53:25 

34:17 

opposite 8:20 
oral 1:14 2:2 3:6 

29:20 

order 27:23 

43:18,24 55:11 

ordered 4:8 

47:18 

orderly 16:2 
ordinarily 8:21 
ordinary 23:15 
originally 4:8 

numerous 15:22  opposed 6:2 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

46:13 

quite 31:18,22 
32:14 33:13 
41:8,20 48:3 
53:5 

40:15,17 41:6 
41:11 42:15 
48:8 50:24 
55:18 

recruitment 

quote 49:19 55:5 

7:16 

reference 50:16 
references 41:12 
referred 41:3,9
referring 6:5 

38:20 

refers 51:20 
refused 43:4 
regarding 56:5 
regardless 5:22 
regime 16:2 

49:19,25

regularity 20:2 
regulation 12:25 

13:22 

regulations

12:22 16:8,8

regulatory

15:16 16:11 
rejected 30:21 
relied 34:16 

42:20 

relief 50:2 
rely 33:23 34:6 
remainder 29:4 
remained 5:4 
remaining 54:16 
remarks 48:16 
remedied 52:10 
remedy 4:1 24:1 

52:4 

remember 

36:19 37:21 
43:19 

repeated 23:1 
repeatedly

30:18 39:17 
44:21 

repeats 24:5 
reports 32:2,5

37:8,10 38:25 

request 14:14 

14:9 28:8,8 
34:3 35:3,3 
36:9 

positions 52:7 
possibility 21:25 
possible 15:1,8 

44:20 54:9 
possibly 51:1 

President 3:17 
50:6,20 51:4 
55:25 

President's 

54:23 

presume 26:14 
presumes 20:2 
pretty 48:11 
prevent 26:16 

55:16 

30:15 

post-complaint 

33:9 

prevented 47:25 

potential 48:6,9  prevents 9:25 
power 17:19 

previously 36:3 
principal 3:20 

38:13 

powerdown 
5:20 36:2,5 
37:12 38:11 
powers 49:14 
practice 16:11 

23:21,25 

12:11,17 

prior 32:3 35:23 

35:25 36:10 
46:20 

probability 

26:22,24 28:25 

precise 24:17 
precisely 40:11 
predicted 6:9,15 

probing 35:1 
problem 20:19 
36:7 42:17,22 
6:21 8:12 9:20  procedural 13:8 

37:2 

prediction 40:19 
preferred 36:25 

16:6 24:20 
25:1 45:14 
52:24 53:6,8 
prejudicial 12:9  proceed 24:10 
preliminary 
27:11 36:17 
3:15 4:1 5:3,13  process 19:18 
5:14 24:2 
28:16 33:7 

44:3 

premise 48:16 
preparation 

18:12 

prepare 10:5,9 
10:16 13:14 
19:6 44:23 

prepared 11:6 

19:19 21:8 
24:9 27:10 
32:5 

preparing 44:7 
presence 5:22 
present 5:21 

12:17 

preserves 52:6 

produced 17:24 
program 17:2 
project 17:5 

24:10 

proof 49:22 
propose 49:18 
proposed 43:5 

proposition 14:3 

45:5 

24:17 

43:7 

protect 42:21 

protection 7:13 

42:23 

prove 27:24 
32:16,23 

proven 38:24 
provide 12:24 
16:21,23 18:1 
provided 14:10 
providing 13:22 
public 4:3 14:1 
15:23 16:21 
45:15 

pudding 49:23 
purpose 23:20 

25:19 52:24,25 

purposes 9:14 
10:2,13 51:19 
put 40:22 42:16 
putting 48:6,8 

qualification 

33:6 

Quality 12:5 

13:1,13 14:11 
14:19,22 18:16 
29:16 

Quality's 10:11 

11:2 17:19 

quantified 52:3 
quantify 52:4 
quarter 31:15 

R

R 3:1
raise 33:22
raised 34:5 45:9 
range 48:10
rare 32:14
rates 7:16
reach 33:8 34:19 

34:20

33:15

46:16

41:24

read 31:3 33:18 

reading 25:12

reads 25:10
ready 27:11
really 15:16
27:22 28:4
45:11

reason 20:3 25:9 

Q 

reached 21:8

31:17 

35:5 39:19
42:14 48:14

reasonably 55:6
reasons 3:20
12:11 18:20
21:16 22:15
39:15

question 10:3 
13:10 14:8 
15:15 18:4,7 
19:6 22:4 
23:11 24:6 
25:22 27:3 
29:24,25 30:1  REBUTTAL
30:9,13 33:1,6 
34:14,21 37:5 
38:14 40:16 
45:9,19 46:8 
46:16 48:4,16 
49:12 50:22,23  recognized
51:11,23 53:16 

2:7 54:17
recall 35:24
recalled 56:3
receive 6:1
recognize 40:12

44:21 49:17

questioning 

54:1 

questions 34:25 

39:9 45:8 

record 5:25 6:4 
8:9 20:4 27:4 
28:2,9 30:14 
32:2 36:6

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

require 24:1 
required 10:24 
10:25 11:15 
24:8 27:9,10 
29:13 52:6 
requirement 
5:17,20 13:2 
14:6 27:18 
33:2 52:1 

requirements 

13:8 16:6 
25:20 

requires 16:7 

45:16 

requiring 31:4 
research 16:23 

27:15 

reserve 29:4 
resolve 43:2 

50:11 

resources 1:8 

3:4 11:11 
respect 4:15 

restriction 5:16 
restrictions 3:16 

4:5 45:5 

result 6:8 14:18 
resulted 35:25 
resulting 9:11 
results 9:7 
reveal 37:10 
reversed 30:6 
review 12:15 
reviewing 36:10 
RICHARD 1:21 

2:5 29:20 
Ridge 54:11 
right 5:8,9 9:5 

14:18 16:5 
18:25 19:2,25 
21:5,9 25:7 
26:8 28:17 
32:20 33:13 
35:13 37:22 
41:25 43:9,12 
48:3 49:21 
50:25 

34:2 

6:11 7:11,15 
7:16 8:5 9:15 
10:21 11:8 
20:16 27:15 
47:1,13 50:21 
51:6 56:13 
respectfully 

respond 53:23 
responded 54:1 
Respondents 
1:22 2:6 4:17 
7:18 21:20 
29:21 

rise 28:14 53:9 
risk 4:16 
ROBERTS 3:3 
5:7,10 10:15 
11:3 15:14 
19:22 29:17,19 
33:5,17 34:4 
34:13,15 37:13 
37:19 38:3,6 
38:14 42:8,19 
43:6,10 46:14 
47:7 48:2 
49:16 53:22 
54:15 56:24 
ruled 43:4,16 
responding 46:7  rulemaking 
13:24 14:4 
15:24 16:1 
rules 15:25 
ruling 54:7 
run 31:6 32:17 

50:17 53:15 
response 8:19 
31:24 32:1 
46:12 

Respondent's 
3:22 10:14 

responsibilities 

21:1 

responsible 47:5 

32:22,24 

S 
S 2:1 3:1 
safeguard 44:19 
safety 30:18 
36:18,23,24
37:1,2,11
sailors 30:3 
satisfied 46:20 
satisfies 51:9 
saw 31:12 
saying 26:1,3
27:16 30:23 
32:21 34:5,6
37:20 39:12 
says 9:18 13:5 

14:25 31:2 
35:11,16 41:25 
43:21 55:4 
Scalia 4:24 

20:19 24:18,24 
25:7 26:19 
28:11 45:9,17
46:1 51:18,24
53:4,8,12 56:2 

Scalia's 46:13 
school 37:22 
science 9:21 

39:16 

scientific 40:9 
scientists 39:18 

40:3 41:7 

scrutinize 37:15 
scrutinized 

38:16 

second 3:23 

17:15 31:13 
50:5 51:25 

Secondly 13:8 
SECRETARY 

1:4 

secure 3:25 
security 3:14 

12:13 

see 13:20 30:25 
34:16 35:10,15
35:17 36:11,14
38:9,10,10,12 

38:13,16 44:16 
45:21 53:19 

seeks 24:1 
seen 55:16 
seldom 52:9 
sense 51:9 
sentence 23:1 

46:19,22 

separate 27:1 
series 32:4 
serious 3:16 

55:5 

seriously 55:23 
Service 9:20 
Services 6:6 

7:14 

Service's 56:12 
set 16:2 26:6 

55:22 

settled 43:2 
severe 9:11 
shift 49:19 
show 24:2,11 

28:9 41:4 52:2 
55:10,11,12,13 

showed 30:17 

showing 3:24 

56:6 

21:22 

shown 4:17 

26:18 30:14 

shows 5:25 
shut 5:19 38:13 
shutdown 5:17 
37:12 38:11 
55:1 

shutdowns 

38:23 

side 5:24 35:15 
36:15,16 41:25 
42:1 47:19 
48:6,8 

Sierra 52:22 
sift 49:6 
significance 

13:18 

significant 5:21 

11:13 16:24
19:25 45:23
simply 18:11
29:14 42:18
46:4,7

single 30:8
sit 56:2
situation 14:20
20:10,11 31:6 
32:22

six 31:5,5 42:9 

42:11

SOCAL 32:9
Solicitor 1:18
10:4 53:23

somebody 37:25
somewhat 46:8

51:23

sonar 3:11,16

5:19 7:23 9:17 
12:2 16:16
20:7 23:6 31:5 
31:14,17,19
33:9 39:19,23
40:11 56:6,20
56:23

sort 6:2 18:13 
sought 30:21
sound 8:19

sounds 18:9

39:23

20:12

sound's 40:1
source 40:3
Souter 12:23

13:9,16 14:2 
14:12 15:2,4
15:12 17:13
18:4,21,24
19:4,9,12,14
20:9,15 22:1,6 
22:7,9,14,21
25:25 26:2,4,9
26:14 34:25
Souter's 15:15
Southern 6:13
7:9,23 10:22 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

5:4,8 

42:16 

stay 4:19,20 5:2 

30:16 52:13 
suggest 15:7 

13:12,13,19,21 
14:3,21 

16:17 17:10 
23:6 32:3 
56:15,19,22 
so-called 6:16 
speak 46:11 
speaking 51:4,4  Stevens 6:24 7:3  suggests 7:10 
species 6:12 
7:10,11,17 
8:11 55:6 

10:3 23:10,13 
23:25 27:20 
28:1,4,8,21 
specifically 13:7  Stevens's 24:6 
specifics 36:13 
stop 25:18 49:9 

suit 14:20 
supplemental 

suggesting 
28:20,25 

supplied 46:24 
support 20:18 

step 46:2 

41:10 

36:18 

spelled 16:20 
spend 33:19 
spoke 47:2 
squared 37:22 
standard 12:15 

49:10 

straight 38:1,6 
stranded 39:17 
strandings 
56:13,15 

strategic 7:12 
strike 3:12 5:19 

12:16 21:25 
22:10,12,17,19  struck 42:20 
43:19,20 50:16  studied 41:7 
51:15 

state 26:10 
subs 35:13 
statement 10:6,9  subsequent 

56:25 57:2 

submitted 34:10  survey 26:6 
survival 3:12 
suspend 49:13 
suspending 

19:5,6 22:12 
40:21 

taken 42:21 43:7 
43:14,15 56:16 
takes 6:17 9:15 

9:15 19:7,9 
39:10 40:20 

talk 33:25 41:14 
talked 46:23 
talking 5:11 

11:23 

tell 31:7,9 
temperature 

31:7 

temporary 5:7 
6:17,22 8:7,13 
8:22,23 9:22 
28:5 55:20 
term 34:22 
terms 5:2 8:15 

12:5 13:4 
40:22 51:2 
terrible 35:14 

41:17 

Thank 3:8 29:17 
29:18 54:15,19 
56:24 

then-Judge 

52:21 

theory 27:20 
thing 21:12 

31:13 40:13 
41:19 42:5,6 
44:5 45:18 
47:17 54:14 

things 13:4 

31:22 32:18 
46:9 52:19 

think 4:17 5:10 
7:5,7 12:18,19 
13:3 18:3 19:3 
19:13 20:17 
21:15 22:8,13 
23:24,25 25:6 
25:22 27:1,5 
28:1,17,18 
33:10,11 37:23 

39:8 44:6,8,15 
44:18 45:9 
47:2 48:2,3,11 
49:1 51:7,23 
51:25 54:3 
55:9 

thinking 35:19 

47:4 

thought 4:22 9:9 

9:10 25:17 
28:19 29:7 
32:16 33:17,24 
56:3 

thousands 6:13 
threatened 7:10 

7:12,17 

three 3:20 4:10 
12:18 16:20 
21:16 

tied 4:20 56:20 
time 14:13 17:15 

20:24 29:4 
33:15 39:21,22 
41:8 45:8 50:4 
50:5 

timely 18:7,12 
times 16:10 

31:20 39:25 

tips 46:21 
tissue 9:8 
today 9:21 55:20 
told 35:20 36:3 
top 3:18 
total 7:4 
totally 42:1 
touched 52:17 
track 3:10 
traditional 

29:25 51:14 
52:2 

train 30:3,24

31:9 32:23,24
34:21 35:6,12
36:1 

trained 32:8 
training 3:17 

4:3 7:25 12:3,6 

supported 30:3 

50:24 

30:4 

supporting 

47:20 

Suppose 11:16 

supposed 17:4 

47:7 

44:12 

20:9 21:3 
53:24 56:8 
surface 5:21 

32:9,13 36:2,4 
55:2 

submarine 3:11  Supreme 1:1,15 
sure 4:24 19:11 

48:10,19,19 
submarines 

31:8,11 

submit 30:11 
48:1 49:14 
54:7 

14:18 

substantial 

15:25 49:18 
substantially 

sustained 7:18 

12:24 

20:5 

56:6 

swears 35:14 
swim 9:4 
swimming 8:16 
45:11 52:24,25  switch 17:13,15 

substantive 

substantively 

45:18 

success 3:22 
21:21 27:2 
29:1 33:23 
34:7 47:9 
suffer 52:3 
sufficient 50:24 
sufficiently 

T

T 2:1,1
table 41:1
tactics 43:25
tailored 47:19
take 4:2 6:11 9:6 

11:17 12:7,9
14:1,23 18:6 

standing 24:21 
25:4,4,5 27:9 
51:21 52:1 
53:10,14 

start 18:11 39:4 

40:22 41:23 
started 21:11 

46:2 

10:20,24 11:15 
12:4 17:4,7,11 
19:7,19,20 
27:21 28:5 
29:2 44:7,24 
50:11 

statements 39:7 
States 1:1,15 

3:19 50:7 56:1 

statistics 7:6 

37:8 

statute 12:25 

13:4,5 16:4,7 
18:16 26:15 
52:24 54:13 

statutory 12:23 

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

21:6,14 41:16  Wildlife 9:20 
46:11 

51:11 

17:2 18:23 
30:14 31:21 
32:19 36:4 
37:6 45:7 
48:21,23 49:3

50:21 51:3 
55:24 

transparency 

Transportation 

45:15 

13:25 

48:11 

4:4 

53:4 

43:7 

undo 30:17 
unencumbered  wanted 41:14 

53:23,24 

unexpected 35:2  warfare 49:4 
unfair 42:9 
unfortunately  Washington 

wartime 49:13 

unilaterally 

wasn't 18:5 21:2 

1:11,19 

36:15 43:8 
56:8 

United 1:1,15 

trial 33:15 
tried 18:12 43:2  unpunished 

3:19 50:7 56:1  water 40:1,2 

45:20 

46:9 

tries 39:11 
troops 32:8 
trump 44:2 
try 41:24 44:2 
trying 44:17 
turn 31:4,14,16 

31:19 

unreasonable 

42:23 

42:1 

use 3:11,16 7:23 

12:2 20:7 
22:12 37:10 
56:23 

usually 22:18 

two 6:16 11:23 

52:14 

16:19 21:12,18  utterly 23:3 
21:19 22:25 
31:1,22 37:6 
42:2 43:21 
45:11 

v 1:7 3:4 14:1 

V 

43:20 51:11,15 
51:17 52:22,22 
vacate 4:23 47:6 

47:17 

typed 8:3 
typical 43:25 

U 

24:15 

unanimous 

uncertainty 

valid 21:4 
Valley 15:22 
values 45:14 
various 40:8 
vast 6:21,25 
uncompromis...  vessel 5:18 
vest 20:13 
view 26:20 
views 39:18 

underscores 

56:21 

44:1 

9:16 

understand 

13:17 17:2,25 
28:23 44:12 
understanding 

17:20,22 

understood 10:4 
undertake 48:5 
undetected 

43:21 
vital 4:3 
vitally 3:12 
volume 41:1 

W
want 12:17

13:19 14:15,21

Watt 52:22 
way 7:10 10:1 
10:21 16:16 
18:12 37:24 
39:23 42:7,7 
42:12,25 54:12 

ways 42:19 
weapons 35:14 
Wednesday 

1:12 

weight 49:7 

50:12 

went 32:17 44:2 

weren't 14:13 

48:12 

46:10 

western 7:7 
we're 10:7 11:23 

14:19 28:7,8 
31:13 33:8 
whale 41:2 
whales 8:6,11 

9:15,17 39:11 
39:12,17,20 
40:3,7,10,17 
40:23 41:4,7 
41:23 55:8,14 
55:18 56:5,8 
56:10,14,19 
Whaling 51:10 
whipsawed 

20:20 

White 15:19 
widening 37:11 

69 

Alderson Reporting Company 

willing 31:14 

41:20 

Winter 1:3 3:4 
words 33:8 

49:17 

work 11:17 

41:19 44:6,12 
45:3 46:9 

worked 46:10 
world 3:13 

39:17 56:14 
wouldn't 20:9 

25:8 50:25 
wrong 5:12 

12:20 17:21 
21:16 22:17 
33:11,12 35:16 
38:17 

10 47:15 
10:01 1:16 3:2 
11:05 57:1 
13 49:23

14 49:24 
170 55:7 
170,000 6:16 
175 6:19 
178 8:9 
180 8:10 41:11 
185 8:10 
188 8:10 
1979 16:9 
198 8:10 
2

2,000 38:2 39:25 
2,200 37:4 
200 8:10 55:5 
2007 17:22,23 
18:8 20:12,15
2008 1:12 12:1 

20:6,10 

X 
x 1:2,10 
Y

2009 10:21 
yards 5:18 31:15  2200 5:18
37:3,4,20,21
38:2,2

36:23 55:1

11:21 16:18 

2200-yard 5:16

years 6:16 8:1 

15:23 23:7
56:22

Z
zero 35:20
zone 36:18,24,24

37:3,11

zones 30:18 37:2 

37:6 

0 

07-1239 1:7 3:4 

1 

1 41:1 
1st 18:8 19:15 

1,000 37:3,20,21 

19:15 

38:2 

223 41:1
256 56:11
258 56:18 
258a 6:19
29 2:6
293-page 11:12

19:20 20:17
25:23

3

3 2:4
326 32:6
33 55:3
344-345A 55:1

4
4 41:9,13
40 16:10 23:7 

56:22

40-year 7:22 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

45 32:6


5

500 31:15 
500,000 7:7 
54 2:9 
545 52:12 
564 8:3 9:9 

6


600-602 41:10 
601 41:11 
666-667 41:11 
673-89 41:10 
674-76 41:12 
680 41:12 
685 41:12 
7


738-41 41:10 
75 5:20 
760 41:10 
8


8 1:12 49:24


9


90 7:1 
97a 34:9 

70 

Alderson Reporting Company 

