Official - Subject to Final Review

   IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
SPRINT COMMUNICATIONS             :
COMPANY, L.P., ET AL.,            :
            Petitioners           :
       v.                         :  No. 07-552
APCC SERVICES, INC., ET AL.       :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Monday, April 21, 2008

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
   of the Petitioners.
ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
   of the Respondents.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                   C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                      3
ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondents                     28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     58

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                            (10:03 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
first today in Case 07-552, Sprint Communications
Company v. APCC Services, Inc.
Mr. Phillips.
              ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
                 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
            Chief Judge Sentelle observed in his dissent
below that there are assignments and there are
assignments, and that's essentially going to be the
theme of my presentation this morning.  It is I think
common ground between the parties in this litigation
that if you have an assignment which represents the
grant of the entirety of both the right and the remedy,
that is the complete assignment of the chosen action,
then under those circumstances there's no question that
the assignee has standing under Article III.
            By parity of receiving, if all that the
assignee receives is a power of attorney, a mere
collection agency role, under those circumstances I
think it's common ground between the parties that
Article III is not satisfied.  Two of the data points

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

come from --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Say it again?  What is the
common ground?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I think the second part of
the common ground is that if all that the assignee
receives is the power of attorney, that is to serve as
the lawyer for the assignor, under those circumstances
the assignee doesn't -- cannot -- has no common stake
than I or my clients do in these particular cases, any
more than I do in my client's interest in these
particular cases, and there I don't think anybody
disputes that Article III is not satisfied.
            Now, the Court in Vermont Agency sort of
identified two additional data points.  First of all, it
made clear that a 10 percent bounty by itself unattached
to anything else is not sufficient, largely I think for
the same reasons why the lawyer's claim is insufficient,
because that's not tied to the particular right at stake
and therefore is inadequate to allow Article III to the
satisfied.
            The second half of it is, though, that if
that bounty is coupled with an assignment of the rights
and even if that's a partial assignment of the rights,
then there is Article III jurisdiction under those
circumstances.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So that if these
contracts provided that the aggregators will turn over
all of the proceeds of the litigation except for one
penny, then you'd be satisfied?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I'm not sure I'd be
satisfied.  I think there's a different -- I think the
answer is that might satisfy Article III.  The only
reason I'm reluctant to say that that's the line that
ought to be drawn is because this Court's taxpayer
standing cases seems to recognize that there are
situations where there is a sufficiently de minimis
amount of at stake that under those circumstances
Article III won't be satisfied.  But clearly the
cleanest line to draw is in circumstances where have you
no stake in the outcome that clearly is beyond what
Article III would ultimately do.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well then, this is not
really a very significant case, is it?  Because I
presume that these enterprises that agglomerate claims
and bring suit as a collection agency, they could simply
get their compensation, instead of by way of, of a flat
fee, by, you know, claiming entitlement to 2 percent of
the rewards.  So it's no big deal, I mean, really.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  But it is a big deal, not
necessarily because of the importance of the article.  I

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

think the Article III part of it is still a big deal.  I
think requiring as a separation of powers matter that
there has to be a concrete stake in the party bringing
the litigation, that's an important principle and the
Court shouldn't abandon it, and that's posed directly in
this case.
            But more fundamentally in terms of the
importance of the underlying process, remember here
we're talking about an assignee who takes on 1400
different assignor claims involving 400,000 pay phones.
And that's the problem, is that when you break this down
and you allow just simple assignments to satisfy Article
III in its prudential standing concerns, then what you
end up with is this mass tort litigation.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it would be just the
same, Mr. Phillips, would it not, if the arrangement was
that the aggregator gets a piece of the action?  Let's
take out the de minimis one cent.  A significant stake,
like the qui tam plaintiff has.  So you would have the
same problems that you're complaining about with regard
to discovery from the individual PSPs, the same problem
with respect to counterclaim.
            That's -- so it seems to me that, as Justice
Scalia suggested, this isn't about a whole lot if just
by the device of giving the aggregator part of the, a

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

piece of the action, this suit would be okay because the
prudential objections that you are making here would
apply just as well.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, and I would -- I would
still assert those same prudential objections in the
hypothetical you pose.  What I'm saying is when you --
when you have an assignment and there is a bounty built
into it, however you want to define the bounty, whether
it's a penny or 10 percent or 2 percent or whatever,
that may satisfy Article III.  I understand that.  That
does not answer the question of whether there's
prudential standing under those circumstances.  In that
--
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Go ahead, I'm sorry.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  In that context, Justice
Ginsburg, you do have the problems.  You don't get the
discovery.  You don't get to use the efficiency of the
counterclaim process, and there are serious questions
about whether or not there are res judicata and
collateral estoppel effects, and I would argue in that
context that there's a very significant claim that those
proceedings ought not to be entertained by a Federal
court as a prudential matter, not as a matter of Article
III.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What if all of the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

claimants assign their claims to something called an
agglomeration trust and the -- the person who's bringing
suit here brings it as a trustee?  He has no interest in
it personally and he is compensated the same way, the
same way this agglomerator is compensated.  He has no
personal interest.  He could sue, couldn't he?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I mean, there is a long
tradition of allowing trustees to bring litigation on
behalf of the trust because that's the only way that a
trust can in fact enforce its rights.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  So once again, it's no big
deal.  I mean --
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, it is a big deal,
because trust relationships carry all kinds of
additional legal consequences.  What is particularly
offensive about this arrangement, Your Honors, is that
the assignor gets all of the benefits of being able to
bring mass tort litigation with none of the
responsibilities.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  He would do the same thing
in Justice Scalia's if it were an irrevocable trust.
The trust could do exactly what the aggregator is doing
here.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  That's true, but there are
additional trust responsibilities that would attach to

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that process.  There's an entire legal regime to deal
with that.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  -- that might protect those
who assigned their interest to the trust, but I don't
offhand see what difference it would make, what
difference those responsibilities would make vis a vis
you and your client.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, again, Justice Souter,
I think the answer probably is going to depend on how
the Court interprets the prudential standing doctrine.
Again, I don't have any quarrel as an Article III
matter, because I think it's one of those long-held
traditions that trustees are allowed to bring litigation
on behalf of the trust and that's understood.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  But the real issue is not
whether the trustee can sue.  The real issue is whether
the trust can sue.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  I mean, that's where
the claims are, sure.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  It seems to me in his
example if the trust can sue, why can't the aggregator
sue?  And your answer was, well, trustees have certain
responsibilities.  But I don't see that those
responsibilities inure to the benefit of your client or
to an opposing party in litigation that a trust brings.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

So I don't see how it would differentiate it.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, there are two
differentiations.  One is that there is this entire
legal regime that regulates trusts and that has allowed
the courts for 200 years, probably longer than that, to
be comfortable to allow litigation to proceed in a
particular way.
            But second of all and the second answer to
your first question is the prudential concerns remain
just, potentially just as serious.  I think the question
is do you want to create litigation devices that allow
the courts to avoid -- to allow lower courts or, more to
the point, allow plaintiffs to avoid the requirements
either of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23 or the
associational standing doctrine.  Those are doctrines
that are designed to limit mass tort litigation in
particularized circumstances --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  You mentioned discovery.
I don't see why you can't get discovery against this
whole bunch of people.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Because they're not a party
to the litigation.  I mean, you can get discovery --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Subpoenas out there and
depositions.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  But, Justice Stevens, if you

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

sue me, you hail me into court, you put me to the
burdens of being a defendant in litigation, the least I
ought to get out of that is that I can turn to you and
ask you to admit certain facts, I can turn to you and
ask you to answer certain interrogatories, and I don't
have to go chasing you down, because you've already
submitted yourself to the personal jurisdiction of that
court.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Of course, in this
particular situation you can do the same thing.  You can
file requests for admissions or serve interrogatories.
I don't understand why you can't do that.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I can serve them on the
aggregator, but I cannot serve them on the party who in
fact has the relevant information that I need.  I have
to use third party subpoena power.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  I would assume the
aggregators have the relevant information.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I'm sorry, Justice Stevens?
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  I would assume the
aggregator would have the relevant information.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  In some instances it might or
it might not.  The problem is the aggregator has got to
get the information.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  But they have to -- they

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

have the burden of proof in the case and I assume they
have to investigate the facts and be prepared for
trial.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  And that would help on the
affirmative case that they have to put together, but it
doesn't help with respect to the counterclaims.  The
Qwest amicus brief does a very nice job of explaining
that there are a lot of situations where the -- where
the payphone operators are overpaid and it's very
difficult -- first of all, and the aggregator has no
idea or any incentive to find out any of that, any of
that information.  And when Qwest made the requests of
the aggregator saying, provide me with the information,
the brief quotes in a variety of places comments such
as, you know, "whatever the -- our aggregator says is
fine with us," or "I don't care about those claims," or
answers like that, which, if I sue you -- I mean, if you
sue me and I ask for those, you cannot give me back
those answers.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But you can make that same
answer if it's just a standard assignee for collection
of -- of a debt for single person.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right, but if it's a simple
assignee for a debt and nothing more than that, just a
power of attorney -- or are you talking about a full

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

assignment?
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No, no.  It's a full
assignment, where everybody agrees that there's
standing.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  But in no circumstance --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You can make the same
argument:  Oh, he might not have all the information.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right, but at least there he
is also responsible for both -- he has the entirety of
the right.  He has the right and the remedy.  So that
whatever counterclaims you have operate directly against
that particular individual.
            But even in that context, Justice Kennedy,
it seems to me there's a fundamental difference, as a
matter of prudence, between dealing with a single
assignee back and forth and the disputes that arise
there and the difficulty of discovery that would exist
there, and the situation we have here where you have
1400 payphone operators --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  You have a discovery be
problem.  I don't see that it's a standing problem.  And
two things it reminds me of are, one very common, a
financer takes an interest in receivables and he's going
to have to collect them as receivables and there may be
50,000.  That could have the same kind of practical

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

problems.  Or we had cases in the First Circuit you may
or may not be aware of where somebody went around and
had assignments for 50,000 cabbages that were delivered
a day late in 50,000 box cars and each one was worth
about $10.  Nobody figured a way out of that.  They had
to pass a special statute.
            There was -- and so it seems to me you're
better off than the cabbage people because have you two
possible remedies:  One on discovery; you could ask the
judge, Judge, see what the Communications Commission
thinks.  It's called primary jurisdiction of the kind.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  But, Justice --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Or you could go to the FCC
and you say, FCC, you got us into this.
            Now, you have some rules here that make some
sense in terms of collection.  You have both those
agency avenues open to you, not open to the cabbage
people, and this doesn't seem a standing problem.  Now,
what's your response to that?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, there are two elements
of the standing problem:  The first one is we're all --
let's be clear -- we're talking about a hypothetical
that's different from this case because we're talking
about a hypothetical where in fact the assignee has a
concrete interest in the outcome of this dispute.  Here

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the assignee has no interest in the outcome of this
dispute.  So the Article III problem arises there.
            The question is if you have a minor amount
at interest, even if it's, you know, concrete but
nevertheless approaches de minimis, should you
nevertheless entertain that case.  And I think the
answer to your question, Justice Breyer, is that instead
of making this into a Federal court case, where you have
1400 claims like this, what the Court should say is that
the better course to follow is in fact for the
plaintiffs to take their claims, if they want to, in an
aggregate form to the FCC because that's the right
institution to deal with it because it doesn't have the
limitations of Article III and it doesn't have the
limitations of prudential standing to interfere with its
ability to provide complete relief.
            And, indeed, if you read the Respondents'
brief, they identify, as the prototype litigation, in
which this entire system worked effectively, a claim
that was in fact litigated in front of the Federal
Communications Commission, not a case that was litigated
in front of the Federal court.  So, to my mind, the
right answer to this case is to take these cases all to
the FCC, not as a matter of what we do as primary
jurisdiction, but simply as what the plaintiffs do

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

because they don't have the vehicle to bring this to the
Federal courts.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What do you do about --
about aggregated plaintiffs who are not in the field of
Federal regulation?  They're just sort of out of luck?
Can they petition for the creation of an FCC that they
can take their claims to?  I mean, this is a fluke that
there happens to be this Federal agency they could have
gone to.  Certainly our principles of standing should
not depend upon that fluke, should it?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I think when the Court
is considering the questions of prudence, you know, it
can certainly take it into account, and maybe that would
argue in the alternative in another case if there
weren't such an available vehicle that the Court might
be more inclined to entertain it under those
circumstances.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Would there be review?
The FCC, you pointed out, doesn't have Article III
barriers.  So the FCC decides one way or another.  One
party ends up losing.  Is there review in Federal court?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I mean, Justice Ginsburg,
that is Spiller.  That's what the Court said in Spiller,
and I think it's a logical outgrowth of what the Court

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

held in ASARCO, which is that, even though a claim
doesn't start with Article III jurisdiction because it's
not an Article III entity, that when a final
determination comes out of that entity that is in fact
enforceable as a right that that right is enforceable
consistent with Article III notions.  And that's true.
That is what the Court essentially, without dealing with
Article III at all, said in Spiller, and that's clearly
what the Court held in ASARCO.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What is the advantage?
You have proposed the FCC route.  That obviously wasn't
taken here.  What is the advantage of going to Federal
court on claims like this?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  From my perspective or from
the plaintiffs' perspective.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Why would the plaintiff
make such a choice if the agency --
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Because the -- the plaintiffs
here, the payphone operators, get a free pass in this
proceeding.  They get all of the benefits of being able
to go to Federal court and bring litigation with none of
the burdens of having to deal with discovery or
cross-claims or counterclaims or even necessarily being
bound by doctrines of res judicata and collateral
estoppel.  So you get all the benefits and none of the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

disadvantages.  That's why it's an advantage for them to
go to Federal court.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  How is that different?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  When --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Just on that very point --
I need clarification on this.  How is that different
than the case of the financer who takes accounts
receivable, which is very common?  You finance the
accounts.  You take a secured interest in accounts
receivable.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And there you might
foreclose on the secured interests.  Then you as the
financer have to collect from everybody.  How is your
case different from that?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I don't know --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  In the respect you were
just talking about.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  Well, I mean, the
real question is I don't know why that case is
necessarily in Federal court either.  I mean, a lot of
that --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I know, but I mean, there
may be many reasons for that.  I'm just saying it's a
normal, practical problem, I believe, in the banking

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

community.  I don't know.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right, but most of that's
litigated in State courts, in which case there's no
serious problem --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Go back to my question, I'd
like to get an answer to it.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Certainly.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  In respect to the problem
you were just mentioning, the discovery problem of
counterclaims or those problems, is this case any
different than the financing case I just mentioned?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  No, I don't think so.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I think those exact problems
would arise in that context as well.  On the other hand,
that's a situation that seems to me is largely driven by
the exigencies and by accident in Federal court.  This
is situation that is driven into Federal court by the
plaintiffs' choice and by the ability and the preference
to be in a position to get the benefits of litigation in
Federal court without any of the detriments that might
otherwise arise in that context.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Could you explain that?
That really goes back to your answer in Justice
Ginsburg's question and I'm not getting it.  She said

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

why would you go to the Federal court if you can you go
to the FCC, and you said, well, you get the benefits of
being in Federal court.  What -- I should be asking
other counsel this question, but as you understand it
what is the benefit of being in the Federal court rather
than the FCC that makes this so attractive?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I guess I would encourage you
to ask counsel on the other side, because personally I
would think that they would have a full and fair remedy
--
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  So you don't know of any
benefits?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I'm sorry?
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  You don't know of any
benefits?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I don't know -- well, other
than the ones I've already articulated, where I think
they get some advantages of being in a Federal court and
have --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, you eliminate step
one.  I mean, you go to the FCC, you win there, then
you've got to face an appeal before the Federal courts.
Why not go right to the Federal courts immediately?  You
eliminate one level of litigation.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, and that may well be

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

his answer.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, I'd like you to go
back to the question that Justice Stevens, Justice
Breyer, and I asked you.  You said, oh, there's a
problem, there's no counterclaim, we can't get the
information.  And we say, well, that happens in every
accounts receivable assignment; there's no problem
there.  And then you say, well, that should be in State
court.  That's not right.
            I thought it was agreed, stipulated by you
at the outset, that if there's a standard assignment for
collection you can be in the Federal court; there is
standing.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right, there is Article III.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  And Article III.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  And let's not lose
sight of that core question --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  If you're saying, if you're
saying that it's the aggregation that makes it difficult
to reach everybody, well, that's a question of
discovery, and it's still the aggregator's
responsibility.  If the aggregator can't answer
necessary questions for discovery of the suit, the
suit's dismissed.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, that may or may not

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

have happen.  But let's be clear, okay.  The core
question here is whether or not an aggregator who has no
claim, who has no stake at all, not a penny's worth, can
pursue this litigation.  On that it seems to me the
answer got -- should be no.  There's no benefit to it.
The concrete stake is a core requirement of Article III
and the Court ought to enforce it as a separation of
powers question.
            The issue that we've been discussing here is
what do you do when you get past that, and when you have
a kind of a bounty that's been attached to it, and how
do you resolve that?  In that situation, which is not
this case, I still think that there would be grounds for
prudential standing to serve as a basis to eliminate
this kind of litigation.  On the other hand, it may well
--
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But you said --
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I am sorry, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You said the aggregator
had -- that the aggregator could sue on behalf of these
1400 plaintiffs naming every one of them as a named
plaintiff in this complaint and still the aggregator
would run the show because they each authorized the
aggregator to conduct the litigation.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Now, it seems to me that
it's not very prudential to require that there be 1400
named plaintiffs instead of one.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I mean, the price you
pay -- bless you -- is that when you bring Federal court
litigation -- is that you have to have -- you have to
expose yourself to exactly the burdens that come with
it.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  You also pay a price.  I
thought that's what you were going to get at.  Talking
about prudential standing, 1400 filing fees is pretty
prudential.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  Federal courts
clearly have an interest in that.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But I thought your
position was they could all join in one complaint just
as long as they're all named separately.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  They can join in a single
complaint.  You know, the court can consider whether or
not it thinks joinder is appropriate under those
circumstances, but they could unquestionably do that.
But then, again, they are then at that point a plaintiff
in the litigation having brought this action and,
therefore, subject to all of the burdens of being a
plaintiff in the litigation, including submitting

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

themselves to the personal jurisdiction of the court.
            I mean, let's be clear about this.  There
are 1400 names out of people all over the country that
under the -- under the plaintiffs aggregators' theory we
have to go chase down in order to obtain discovery, to
obtain any of our counterclaims or anything like that.
Whereas if they come into this Court and they submit
themselves to the jurisdiction, at least the process
works as the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, I don't like to be
the broken record.  I'm just not getting -- I don't see
why that isn't the responsibility of the plaintiff.  The
district court said, now, you've brought these claims.
The defendants need this information.  You go get that.
That's your responsibility.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I don't doubt that the
trial court can do that, but the question is:  Why do we
have to go to the burden of having to chase all of that
in the first instance?
            I mean, the Respondent's brief at page 10
criticizes us for not having brought 1400 third-party
complaints, not having sought additional discovery.  All
of those are burdens that simply arise in this context
that otherwise do not exist in an ordinary case where
you simply ask the party who has the actual claim to be

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the plaintiff in front of the court.
            And that's -- and, again, just to be clear,
we are still here dealing with the hypothetical.  We're
not dealing with the core question of what do you do
with a plaintiff who has not one penny at stake in
litigation that, as the lawyers describe, is all hard
cash.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  I'm sorry.  The only way,
it seems to me, that you can eliminate what you regard
as a problem is by having 1400 separate actions, so that
in any given case if you want discovery, your plaintiff,
the person who has got to provide that discovery, is
standing right there.
            And I don't see how you can get the benefits
that you are claiming entitled to without having 1400
separate actions.  If you don't have 1400 separate
actions, whether you have an aggregation like this,
whether you have a joint action, whether you have a
class action, this problem of chasing down, as you
describe it, is going to be there.
            So it seems to me the prudential question
for this Court is:  Do we really want to require 1400
separate actions so that you can have your perfect
paradigm of private litigation?  And to say, yes, we
want 1400 actions, it seems to me is a stretch.  What do

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

you say?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I think the answer to that is
that when you -- when you deal with mass tort
litigation, the Rules of Civil Procedure ought to apply
in that context as it applies in every other place.  And
when the courts deviate from the standard paradigm for
litigation, they do it expressly, either through the
rules or through doctrines that already exist.
            And so we have Rule 23, which sets out very
clear protections for both the courts -- or not only for
the courts, but for the plaintiffs and for the absent
defendants -- absent, absent plaintiffs and for the
defendants, and is a clear mechanism for conducting 1400
claims all once in a particular situation.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  What does that have to do
with -- I guess that goes to prudential standing.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  It goes directly --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  It has nothing to do with
Article III standing.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  No, to be sure.  Again, I
don't think that -- I mean, the Article III debate here
seems to me to turn solely on the question of there is
no stake in the outcome of this case.  That's a bedrock
requirement of Article III and ought to be a basis for
simply reversing.  But, you know, to the extent that the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Court then goes beyond that and worries about what's the
next case going to look like and what are the prudential
limitations, which I don't think the Court has to
resolve any of this, what I would suggest is the Court
should be informed by Rule 23 and associational standing
and those doctrines --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Are you saying, in effect,
that if we get to the prudential-standing point, the
answer is that in the absence of a rule comparable to
Rule 23 we should not recognize prudential standing, but
that if we adopted a rule that sort of regulated how
this would work, prudential standing would be
appropriate?  Is that basically it?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I think that's the right
answer, is that the Court shouldn't just make it up as
it goes along.  And if there is a need for this -- look,
and the truth is we've been here 200 years.  We haven't
had to have aggregator standing all of this time.  It
strikes me that there's no compelling need for a change
and that for that reason the Court ought to go back to
the paradigm example, plaintiffs sue defendants and you
have normal discovery and counterclaims.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is there any significance
to this being the -- this assignment transfers legal
title.  True, there's an obligation to pay, to pay the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

separate PSPs.  But does anything turn on legal title?
For example, suppose the -- I gather the check would be
payable to the aggregator if the aggregator prevails.
Could a creditor of the aggregator come in and say,
stop, you owe me lots of money and I want to reach those
proceeds?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  That -- I mean the proceeds
-- I assume -- do those claims arise out of the
relationship between the payphone operators and the
aggregator?
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  No.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  It's completely unrelated to
that?  It's just a garnishment on it?
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  These are just the
creditors.  Or the aggregator goes bankrupt.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  I assume those moneys could
be taken out of the aggregator and then the PSP would
have a claim over against the aggregator for breach of
contract.
            If I could reserve the balance of my time.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Mr. Phillips.
            Mr. Englert.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.
                ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. ENGLERT:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
            One of the last things Mr. Phillips said was
there's no need to change the law in this case and I
strongly agree with that.  Assignees for collection have
been litigating in Federal courts since at least the
19th century and there is not one decision cited in any
of the briefs in this case in which an assignee's
lawsuit was dismissed solely because of what the
assignee intended to do with the proceeds.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But also not one in which
the issue of standing was raised and decided.  And our
jurisprudence says that where we do not address the
issue of standing the case has no precedential value on
the subject.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Justice Scalia, a single
decision, a small body of decisions that don't address
the issue of standing, can be looked at in that way.
But a unanimous body of case law, two decisions from
this Court, arguably a third decision from this Court,
many decisions from lower courts --        JUSTICE
SCALIA:  I don't consider two decisions an enormous
body.
            MR. ENGLERT:  But there is an enormous body
in the lower courts under Rule 17.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, we don't count the
lower courts.
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Mr. Englert, with respect
to what weight we should give to those decisions, I just
want to put a simple hypo and I'll ask a question on it.
Assume that in this case the assignment -- well, assume
another case, rather, in which the assignment is
identical is identical to this one, except that the
terms of the second agreement, i.e., if I the aggregator
collect anything I give it to you.  Assume that is part
of the first agreement, so that there is an assignment
and as part of the assigning document there is a stated
obligation on the part of the assignee to pay all
proceeds to the assignor.
            I am assuming that your position would be
the same; is that correct?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Absolutely.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Now, my question is, you're
taking that position, I think, just as you did in
response to Justice Scalia, on the grounds that there is
a huge body of law that assignment for collection
conveys adequate standing.  But are any of the
assignment for collection cases in that body of law
clearly cases like the one in my hypothetical in which

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the assignment itself by its terms requires the total
payment of any benefit back to the assignor?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Justice Souter, the cases
don't always discuss the way in which the assignment
arose.  But typically, in those cases they simply say,
there are these two promises, and they say the fact that
there is a second promise makes no difference.  That's
my position.  The fact that there's a second promise,
whether in the same document or in a different document,
makes no difference.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What's the earliest of
those cases in our Court?
            MR. ENGLERT:  The earliest case --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  The earliest case in our
Court that upholds this that, without specifically
addressing the standing issue, gives judgment?
            MR. ENGLERT:  The earliest case that gives
judgment is Spiller in 1920.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  1920?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  In Vermont Agency, in the
Vermont Agency case, which dealt with qui tam, that many
people, including the Justice Department, thought did
not confer Article III standing, we held to the contrary
that it did confer Article III standing, mainly because

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

it had been around forever.  It was -- it was the
understood part of the judicial power when the
Constitution was adopted.
            Do you have any case prior to 1920 in which
English courts or even early American courts thought
that this, that this would be sufficient to bring a
lawsuit?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Well, assignee standing, not
assignee for collection standing but assignee standing,
is referred to in Blackstone's Commentaries
contemporaneously with the Constitution.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Sure, but --
            MR. ENGLERT:  This wrinkle of arguing --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's more than a wrinkle.
The assignee keeps the money.
            MR. ENGLERT:  But the wrinkle of arguing
that that makes a difference as far as I know first
arose in the 19th century.  And every single case and
every single Federal court that has considered the
question under any body of law has rejected the
argument.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What's the earliest Federal
court case you have?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Late 18th -- late 19th
century.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Late 19th century?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We're not under any
body of law.  I didn't see any cases cited after we had
more carefully explicated our understanding of Article
III.  What's the latest case from this Court that you've
got?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Well, as you know, I argue
that the Vermont Agency case strongly supports us.  But
if you want a case specifically about assigning
collection, then the latest case I have is Titus in
1939.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, aren't Titus and
Spiller different in that there the assignee is suing on
a judgment that was obtained in a forum where Article
III didn't apply?
            MR. ENGLERT:  No, absolutely not, Justice
Alito.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Why isn't that irrelevant?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Because for the exact reason
Mr. Phillips gave you.  The ASARCO case and Coleman v.
Miller, Justice Frankfurter's concurring opinion, and a
number of other cases stand for the proposition that a
party who invokes the jurisdiction of this Court or of
any other Federal court must satisfy Article III.  So

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

when Spiller, the secretary of the Cattleman's
Association, went to the Federal district court seeking
enforcement of the reparations award he had gotten
before the ICC, he had to satisfy Article III.
            When Titus came to this Court arguing that
the lower courts had not properly given full faith and
credit, he had to satisfy Article III.  Each of those
parties invoking the jurisdiction of the Federal court
was someone who had to turn over 100 percent of the
proceeds to the assignors.  And in each case this Court
rejected the argument that he was not a proper
plaintiff.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, you say in
your brief that there is no reason for concern about the
absence of concrete adverseness.  But I would have
thought there was a great deal of reason for concern and
that your client doesn't care if he wins or loses.
            MR. ENGLERT:  My client --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  It's all the same to
him.  If he wins, he doesn't get to keep the money; if
he loses, he loses.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Well, that's -- that's false
in every possible respect, Your Honor.  He does keep --
get to keep some of the money.  Now, we haven't proved
that in the lower court.  It's an allegation at this

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

point, but it happens to be true.  But aside from
that --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I thought the
question came to us on the assumption that he doesn't
retain any of the money.
            MR. ENGLERT:  On the assumption, but not the
fact.
            Second, my client's whole reason for
existence is to collect payphone compensation.  This is
what my client does day in and day out.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But I thought our
cases made clear that that kind of -- -- I forget what
we call it -- it's a separate interest from the injury
that you're alleging in the lawsuit.  You don't allege
in the lawsuit that the basis for Article III injury is
that you're in this line of work and if the work dries
up you're in big trouble.  That wouldn't be enough to
support Article III standing.
            MR. ENGLERT:  No.  What's enough to support
Article III standing is the interest of the assignors,
as the Court held in Vermont Agency.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but then why
is the assignee bringing the lawsuit?
            MR. ENGLERT:  The assignee --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  He had no

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

independent injury.
            MR. ENGLERT:  The assignee is bringing the
lawsuit for the most pragmatic of all possible reasons.
Mr. Phillips wanted to talk a lot about discovery, and
Justice Kennedy and I believe Justice Souter asked why
is this lawsuit in Federal court instead of before the
FCC.  There are good answers to those questions.
            The discovery in Federal court, the
discovery available in Federal court, is more
appropriate to -- is more necessary in a large case, a
$200 million case like this one, than in a relatively
small case --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry, we got
off the track here.
            MR. ENGLERT:  We did.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm trying to find
out what the assignee's injury is.
            MR. ENGLERT:  The -- the assignee's
injury --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And how it's
redressed by the receipt of the money.
            MR. ENGLERT:  It is, as this Court said in
Vermont Agency, the assignor's injury and it is
redressed by --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No.  But you know,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Vermont Agency, obviously, the assignee recovers
something himself, that he gets to keep the bounty.
Here that's not the case.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Here that's not the case, but
the reasoning of Vermont Agency specifically rejected
the proposition that the bounty was helpful to the
assignee's standing.  And there is not a word in Vermont
Agency that says when you combine the bounty with the
assignor's interest that's enough.  It just says the
assignor's interest is enough, full stop, because of the
ancient doctrine.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought it said -- I
thought it said, Mr. Englert, that, that the United
States has -- is treated as having assigned part of its
claim for damages to the qui tam relator, and that gave
the qui tam plaintiff a stake in the action, a stake in
the proceeds.  I thought that Vermont Agency -- and
Justice Scalia will correct me if I'm wrong -- was
envisioning the kind of assignment that Judge Sentelle
was talking about when he said there are assignments and
then there are assignments.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I was under the same
misimpression, I have to say, and I wrote it.
            (Laughter.)
            MR. ENGLERT:  The -- the assignment in this

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

case conveys all right, title and interest.  It conveys
it for purposes of collection to be sure, but it conveys
all right, title and interest.
            Now, the proposition that the "for purposes
of collection" purpose of an assignment negates the
ability of the plaintiffs to sue is one that has been
litigated many times in Federal courts, and that
argument has been rejected in every case in which it's
come up until now, including two from this Court.  So
between the fact that the reasoning of Vermont Agency,
whatever the facts were, relied on the interest of the
assignor, relied on the ancient doctrine that the
assignee for Article III purposes stands in the
assignor's shoes, and the fact that this argument has
been rejected in every case in which it's come up, I
think the case for Article III standing is quite strong
here.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I must say we seem to have
come full circle from Flash v. Cohen, which said that
the doctrine of standing had nothing whatever to do with
Article III.  That it all -- the only thing it's there
for is to assure that concrete adverseness on which our
adversary system depends.  You've come full circle from
that to now your argument that concrete adverseness
doesn't matter at all.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. ENGLERT:  Oh, Justice Scalia --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is there a combination of
the two that's possible, that maybe one of the elements
of Article III standing is that both parties have a
stake in winning and losing?
            MR. ENGLERT:  There is tremendous concrete
adverseness in this case.  And both parties have a great
stake in winning and losing.  The -- the aggregator
doesn't get to keep the money, although actually it
does, but this case can be decided on the assumption,
subject to remand that it doesn't get to keep the money.
But it exists for the purpose of bringing -- of
obtaining redress from carriers obtaining payphone
compensation from carriers, usually outside the
litigation process.  But this is -- but this is what my
client does -- what my clients do.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The Sierra Club
protect -- undertakes activities to protect the
environment, but that doesn't give it standing in every
environmental case to sue.  It needs to show members
what the concrete interest and so on.  The fact that
your client is in the business of suing on behalf of
payphone operators --
            MR. ENGLERT:  My client is not in the
business of suing on the business of payphone operators.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

My client is in the business of collecting, usually
outside the litigation process.  This is merely an
extension of the day-to-day operation.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Can you tell me is this
1,400 causes of action or is it one?
            MR. ENGLERT:  One.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  How does that come about?
Suppose a lot of people owe the bank -- a lot of farmers
owe the bank money, can there be assignment in this one
cause of action?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Sure.  And let me give you
one --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And how does the law
express the metaphysical process in which 1,400 causes
of action become one cause of action?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Well, they are all assigned to
one entity that brings the cause of action just as a
trustee brings causes of action --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, there is not a
representative cause of action.  What is the magic point
at which it becomes one cause of action?
            MR. ENGLERT:  The point at which they are
all assigned to one entity that then brings the cause of
action, and importantly, has authority to settle the
cause of action without any further permission from the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

clients.  The -- a very, very important protection here
for Mr. Phillips --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'm still missing
something here.  Can you give me an example of where
this has happened in other cases that this Court has
heard that are commonly heard?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Every Rule 23 class action,
every associational standing case, every trustee action.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I interrupted you and I
talked over you.  Every Rule 23 cause of action and what
else?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Every associational standing
case, every action brought by a trustee.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, associational
standing, Sierra Club v. Morton, they are interested in
an ongoing injury in which there is a common -- in which
there is a common injury.  These are liquidated amounts.
            MR. ENGLERT:  But that's not uncommon, Your
Honor.  Justice Souter's opinion for the Court in United
Food and Commercial Workers v. Brown reported a Seventh
Circuit case that said representative damages litigation
is common from class actions under Rule 23 to suits by
trustees representing hundreds of creditors in
bankruptcy, to parent patriot actions by State
governments to litigation by and against executors at

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

decedent's estates.  This is something that happens
every day in Federal court.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Those are usually ongoing
injuries as to which there's a common interest in
stopping the injury.  Here you're aggregating liquidated
amounts.
            MR. ENGLERT:  It's actually not entirely
liquidated amounts.  There are ongoing disputes about
ongoing payphone compensation.  But I don't think it
would make any difference even if that weren't true.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I might understand it if
was some sort of injunction actions -- in the future
please pay what you're supposed to pay.
            MR. ENGLERT:  No.  But, Justice Kennedy,
consider the typical Rule 23 damages action, which is
about amounts due in the ordinary case.  You have one
cause of action on behalf of the class instead of many
causes of action on behalf of many people.  It happens
all the time.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But that's allowed because
the requisites for class actions have been met and
that's authorized by the rule.  That's not true here.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Because we have something much
better here.  What we have here, Justice Kennedy, is
assignments of the cause of actions by every plaintiff

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

to my clients completely --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  There are a lot of better
procedures that are in the rules but it is not in the
rule.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Actually there is.  Rule 17
was put in the rules.  And if you read the works of
Judge Charles Park, you will see that Rule 17 was put in
the rules to authorize justice kind of action to be
brought in the name of assignees, including asignees for
collection.  And one year after he joined the Federal --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask a fact question?
I'm just a little puzzled here.  I probably should have
asked Mr. Phillips.  But what issues in fact are there
going to be in this case?  It seems to me everything
ought to be on computer somewhere, and it's just a
matter of pushing the right button and you know how much
money you owe.  Am I missing something?
            MR. ENGLERT:  You're not missing something,
Justice Stevens.  That's what this case is about, is
computer records, massive computer records in possession
of the carriers and some tools the aggregators have to
analyze computer records.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Except for counterclaims.
He says I have some counterclaims.
            MR. ENGLERT:  He says he has some

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

counterclaims, but in nine years of litigation his
clients have never used Rule 19; they have never used
Rule 22; they have never made any effort -- he says we
have asserted they have to go out and bring 1,400
separate lawsuits.  What we said on page 10 of our brief
was they have never tried in nine years of of litigation
to use --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, what did they do?
I mean, you mention necessary parties but these other --
on your own theory the PSPs are not necessary parties,
and this -- this is a defendant seeking to join
additional plaintiffs, and that's rather odd.  And you
also talk about interpleader.  I don't know who is the
stakeholder in this picture.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Well, Your Honor, my point is
that there are many procedural devices available to deal
with many situations like this, Rule 19 and Rule 22 and
separate lawsuits.  If there were serious counterclaims
in this case, first of all as a factual matter, AT&T and
Sprint would know it from their own records and second,
they would have done something in nine years to try to
bring a claim against PSP, and they have done nothing in
nine years.  So this is a very, very odd case in which
to be worrying about whether they have lost some
counterclaim rights because the PSPs -- lost some

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

counterclaim rights because the PSPs aren't individual
parties.
            It's also a very odd case in which to be
worrying about discovery rights because the PSPs aren't
individual parties because that issue was resolved in
their favor in 2000 by the special master's discovery
order saying, just as Justice Stevens postulated, the
aggregator to go out and get the information from the
PSPs.
            Now they complained that some of the PSPs,
some of these mom and pop operations, said we don't have
any information.  That's because for the most part the
PSP don't have any information.  The information resides
with the carriers and with the aggregators.  So as a
purely practical, pragmatic matter this is not the case
in which to be worrying that some discovery rights have
been lost; this is not the case in which to be worrying
in which some counterclaim rights have been lost; this
is not the case in which to be worrying that my clients
aren't' bound.  Every single -- I'm sorry, that the PSPs
aren't bound, the assignors aren't bound, because every
single one of them has signed an agreement, or two
agreements, really, saying they will be bound.  What
this comes down to is a series of abstractions put up
against the tradition of allowing lawsuits by assignee

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

for collection.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well I guess it could be
that you're asking them to go back into records that are
somewhat old.  What you're asking to find out is -- is
every call made out of a payphone that was long distance
call, and we don't even know who actually turned out to
be the carrier.  It's like asking them, tell us exactly
on the payphone at that corner over there who was called
at 9:15 a.m. to some number in 1987, and maybe they
should have records of that but they don't.  They have
estimates --
            MR. ENGLERT:  No, they do.  There is no --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  They say maybe the time
necessary to go through those records, to figure out
whether you should give 12 cents to the person who ran
that payphone, is really not worth it.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Well --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And therefore, if they are
right in some claim like that, is there a way to get
this worked out at the FCC?  I mean, it -- it -- I don't
think it was the purpose of this statute to have 12 cent
claims, even aggravated, brought back years later under
some set of procedural rule that will be so expensive to
get the discovery that this just won't be worth it.
            Now that might be right.  And if it is right

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

or whether it's right, can the FCC work this out?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Your Honor, several points if
I may.  47 U.S.C. in section 276 says that payphone
service providers are to be compensated for each and
every payphone call.  So it was Congress's purpose to
make any 24 cent call compensable, and the FCC set up a
very elaborate system to make them keep records.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm aware of that system.
I'm aware of that.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Well, as -- and there is about
$200 million at stake in this case so this is not about
each 24-cent payphone call individually.  This is a
properly advocated case.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Right.  But my question is
to get to that figure there may be billions of calls,
for all I know.
            MR. ENGLERT:  There are.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And it could be quite
expensive to track down each of those calls
individually.  I don't know if it is or not; but if it
is, is there a way to get this problem worked out at the
FCC or do we have the cabbage case grown large?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Your Honor, my client has
brought scores of these actions -- my clients have
brought scores of these actions, some before the FCC,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the largest ones -- and this is the largest one of
all -- in Federal court to get the advantage of the
discovery processes in Federal court.  Most of these
cases settle.  These cases as Justice Stevens pointed
out are about analyzing computer records, and you can
fight to the death or you can say let's figure out who
owes whom what and let's settle; and most of the cases
settle.  There is no reason why there should be any more
or less incentive to settle when the case is before the
FCC than when it's before a Federal court.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  In settlement they may work
out.  But if it is -- for example costs a dollar to
fight a claim that's worth 12 cents, individually,
before you get to billions, they don't want to be in
that situation where they are really paying money for
nothing; because in their opinion they already paid.
            I mean we understand this kind of problem.
So I go back to my question.  They have one view of it;
you have another of what's going on here.  And their
view is very unfavorable to your clients and your
clients' view is very unfavorable to their clients.  So
I would like to know is there a way to get this worked
out at the FCC?  Maybe that will turn out not to be
relevant in this case but I'd still like to know your
opinion.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. ENGLERT:  Well, this case was brought in
Federal court under a statute that permits the
plaintiffs to choose whether to go to Federal Supreme
Court or the FCC.  The reason it's nine years old is not
because we didn't sue immediately; it's because we've
been litigating for nine years about our right to
litigate.
            Does the FCC have a useful role to play in
this process at this point?  Never say never, but I
don't see one.  The case was brought in Federal court
under a doctrine that has always allowed assignees for
collection to sue in Federal court, and there is no
reason I can think of why it shouldn't proceed in
Federal court.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Englert, is this one
lawsuit or 1,400 lawsuits, or however many clients you
have?
            MR. ENGLERT:  It's one lawsuit.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  How can it be -- how is it
one lawsuit when there are, I mean, just a lot of
different individual claims?  You think you could have
brought this as a class action?
            MR. ENGLERT:  We, after Judge Sentelle
dismissed this case, we moved to the alternative to
amend our complaint to add either 1,400 individual

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

plaintiffs or a class action.  The plaintiffs opposed
that, and then she reversed herself on --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  They opposed it on what
seems to be a reasonable ground, that each of these
claims is quite different.  There are different calls,
different -- different amounts owing.  Each case is not
going to be judged on the same -- on the same facts.
            MR. ENGLERT:  That's really not true,
Justice Scalia.  Just it's a pure practical matter,
leaving aside theory, this is about analyzing computer
databases.  This is about analyzing call records.
Because of the system the FCC set up, none of the
information resides with the PSPs; it resides with the
aggregators and with the carriers.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do you agree that this
could not have been brought as a class action?
            MR. ENGLERT:  No, I disagree, Justice
Kennedy.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Why didn't you bring it as
a class action?
            MR. ENGLERT:  I'm sorry?
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Then why didn't you bring
it as a class action?  We can all go home.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Because it's so much better to
bring it on behalf of individuals who have expressly

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

consented to be bound, than on behalf of people who may
not even know about it and who may not have consented to
be bound and may not want to be bound as in the typical
class action.
            There are all sorts of problems with class
actions.  Class actions are typically brought by
enterprising law firms who may not ever have met their
clients.  This is a different litigation altogether.
This is litigation by a trade association that exists to
collect payphone compensation, doing the same thing it
always does, only doing it in court on behalf of 1,400
companies that each signed an agreement saying I want
you to go do this for me and I agree to be bound by the
result.  So I can get entitlement interest.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Do you -- this is giving me
a thought here.  Just a total imaginary case, nothing to
do with your clients.  Put yourself in the opposite
position.  Suppose you were representing a defendant and
that defendant were asked by this imaginary plaintiff to
dig up records on the computer.  To dig up each
individual record costs $1, there were billions of such
records, and the value to you, to the other side, the
plaintiff, imaginary in this case, was 12 cents a call.
Okay?  So you say look, those people are asking us to
dig up billions of records, it's going to cost us a

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

dollar each to do it, and all they are going to get out
of it is 12 cents a call.  But of course we are the ones
who have to pay the dollar, and they get the 12 cents.
Now, is there a way for the legal system to solve that
problem?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Other than standing.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Push the parties to settle.
That's what rational economics --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, the defendant says --
now your client, I am not going to settle; there are no
such claims.  This is ridiculous but it's going to cost
me a dollar to prove it.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Yeah, the client says millions
for defense, but not one cent -- one cent for tribute
and every lawyer gets happy, because the client wants to
litigate to the death instead of just surrendering to
extortion, in that kind of case they have to decide
whether the economically rational thing is to set a bad
precedent or is to settle.
            That happens all the day for defense counsel
and I'm quite often defense counsel --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Speaking -- speaking
--
            MR. ENGLERT -- but this case is not of that

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

nature.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Speaking of one cent
for tribute, it's easy to get rid of this problem, isn't
it?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Prospectively.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Why don't your
agreements just say you get to keep $10 out of every sum
that your recover?  Then we wouldn't have this problem.
            MR. ENGLERT:  I agree, and we made that
point in our brief in opposition to cert.  This case is
of no practical significance going forward for the body
of the law.  There's nothing this Court is going to
decide in this case that's going to make a difference.
People will just draft their assignment and --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So why --
            MR. ENGLERT:  So my clients --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Why doesn't the tie
go to Article III?  I mean if it makes no difference
either way I'd like to preserve significance of Article
III as a limit on court jurisdiction.
            MR. ENGLERT:  Article III is a proper and
important limit on court jurisdiction when it restricts
court jurisdiction.  When we have a traditional cause of
action, the abstractions that have come to be thought of
as Article III jurisprudence don't trump tradition.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but --
            MR. ENGLERT:  What Article III --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, Article III
does trump tradition.  I mean, if it doesn't meet
Article III, no amount of tradition can save it.  And
you several times refer, when asked one of these
questions, to the tradition and the old cases, but I
haven't heard an answer yet to the concrete injury that
is suffered by the aggregators.
            MR. ENGLERT:  The -- on the assumption on
which this case comes to the Court, the aggregators'
injury is the assigned injury of the assignors.  We are
taking the principle of Vermont Agency and saying that
applies just as much to assignees for collection as it
does to any other assignees.  Contrary to Mr. Phillips'
position and Judge Sentelle's position, that there are
assignments and then there are assignments, the law has
looked many times at the question whether there are
assignments and then there are assignments.  The
argument that assignees for collection should be treated
differently has been made many times.  It has never
prevailed in Federal court, unless and until it prevails
in this case.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The significance --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Englert, could you --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- to the legal title,
would it make a difference if the assignee did not have
legal title, was just --
            MR. ENGLERT:  Oh, it would make a huge
difference, Justice Ginsburg.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So -- but is that just a
formality?  For example, the question I asked
Mr. Phillips.  Could a creditor of the aggregator get at
this money when the check is paid by AT&T and Sprint and
therefore reduce the amount available to distribute to
the PSPCs?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Well, if we assume insolvency
and we assume a secured creditor, then, yes, I think the
PSPs are general unsecured creditors, and the secured
creditor is in line ahead of them.  Different facts,
different results.  But, yes, it does make a difference
if the assignee enters insolvency, which is not going to
happen in this case, but if the assignee enters
insolvency and if there is a creditor that arguably
under insolvency principles has a higher claim than the
PSPs, yes, it does make a difference to the assignee.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How about for tax
purposes?  Must the aggregator report the proceeds as
income?
            MR. ENGLERT:  Your Honor, I'm sorry.  I just

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

don't know the answer to that question.  I'm guessing
they either don't report them as income or they report
them as income, but then have a deduction in the exact
same amount.  But I really don't know the exact answer
to that.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Englert, can you
explain to me again how it is that when you acquire 14
separate choses in action, 14 separate claims, against
the same defendant, just by your acquiring them they
sort of melt into one cause of action.  How does that --
how does that happen?
            MR. ENGLERT:  That happens the same way it
happens under Rule 23.  It happens the same way it
happens with the trustee who is representing people who
would otherwise have many different causes of action.
It's a very common thing in Federal court.  If the -- if
a bankruptcy trustee or if a class representative brings
a lawsuit on behalf of many people, then there is one
cause of action instead of the many causes of action
there would be if those many people sued directly.  It's
not an issue.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  In all of those
cases, the class action, the trustee, you know, the
named plaintiff, the named trustee has concrete injury
and redressability to themselves?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. ENGLERT:  No more than my clients.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Very much more than
your clients.  The trustee has legal obligations that he
has to discharge.  If it's a suit that he has to bring
on behalf of the beneficiaries and doesn't do it, he is
sued for breach of trust.  In a class action case, the
representative has to have standing, has to show
concrete injury and redressability.  Here we don't have
any of that.
            MR. ENGLERT:  I respectfully disagree, Your
Honor.  My clients have legal obligations that they have
to discharge.  They are embodied in the very agreements
reproduced in the back of the red brief, that require us
to pursue this action and require us to turn over --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But why do we have Rule 23
that requires certification of a class action?  If you
can say, well, I don't need Rule 23, I'm going to take
1400 claims and make them one any way.
            MR. ENGLERT:  For very good reasons.  Rule
23 exists to protect absent plaintiffs, something we
don't have here, and to protect defendants so that they
will know there will be a res judicata effect of the
judgment, whether for them or against them, so that they
can't be sued by other class members.
            They have those protections.  In fact, if

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

you read the blue and yellow briefs in this case, they
keep referring in the abstract to the protections of
Rule 23, but they don't identify a single concrete
protection that they do not have under this system.
Rule 23 is inferior to an action by assignees for
collection in every imaginable way.  It's not a superior
alternative.  And to say that the existence of Rule 23
means we should throw out a traditional form of action
that's been recognized for well over a century would be
a very surprising result.
            Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Mr. Englert.
            Three minutes, Mr. Phillips.  You might
start by the point your friend just made.  What is the
protection that Rule 23 provides that you don't have?
            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
                 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
            The specific protection is that the courts
determine how the settlements will play out.  They make
sure that all of the requirements of Rule 23 are
satisfied before the litigation goes forward.  That
means that there is a demonstration of commonality, that
there -- the predominance issue is resolved, that this

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

58

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

is a matter that should be litigated in this forum
because it is a more efficient mechanism for litigating
it, not because the assignor -- assignee decided that
this is more efficient way from the assignee's
perspective --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And are problems --
            MR. PHILLIPS:  -- to litigate the issue.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Are the requirements of
typicality and -- the same type of injury designed in
part to preserve the rights of the defendant?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes, of course, because you
don't want to have all this litigation being heaped on a
particular defendant under these circumstances.  There
is an efficiency to this process that the rules
anticipate.  And I think you're absolutely right,
Justice Kennedy.  There is simply no reason in the world
to say we're going to allow this to be as a substitute
for existing doctrines under either Rule 23 --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But wouldn't you --
            MR. PHILLIPS:  -- or associational standing.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Suppose this had been
mounted as a class action.  I take it you would oppose
certification.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  To be sure, and my answer is
--

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

59

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And one of the reasons
would be that these are all different situations,
different amounts involved in each case?  Some -- you
would have a counterclaim, not others.  I assume you
would say they're not a lot alike.  Not at all alike.
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Absolutely, Justice Ginsburg.
We would oppose it.  I don't think that this is a proper
case for class certification.  But it seems to me that
that doesn't mean okay, and, therefore, the answer to
this is:  Come up with some other contrivance in order
to litigate this in a way that obviously maximizes the
convenience to one side without regard to the
protections that are designed both for the defendant and
for the court that's embodied in Rule 23.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Phillips, do you
attach any significance to the fact that every member of
the so-called class here has individually agreed to be
bound by the judgment?
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, it's interesting
because they -- in one -- in the assignment part of it
they say they are bound, but on the -- on the separate
set of the agreement it talks about the reasonable
discretion of the assignor -- assignee.  So the
agreement is, to my mind, inherently contradictory as to
what are the obligations.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

60

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Which -- the assignees,
but the assignors have agreed to be bound --
            MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, if it's reasonable --
it says reasonable discretion.  And so the question is,
you know, is this -- was that an exercise of reasonable
discretion?  And I don't know the answer to that in any
given case.
            And I think part of the -- Justice Kennedy
and Justice Breyer, you asked the question about above
and beyond discovery, what are the other problems that
arise when you go down this -- and the more -- the other
one is that being bound by the judgment.
            If you have a complete assignment of the
chosen action, the assignee, then, is completely bound.
There is nothing left.  The assignor has no rights left.
There is nothing left for the assignor to do in that
situation; whereas, in these kinds of situations where
the assignee receives the right to go forward but the
remedy is in another party's hands, the potential for
being bound is completely lost.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Mr. Phillips.  The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the hearing in 
the above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

61

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

advantage 17:10

aggregator's

38:12

additional 4:14
8:15,25 24:22
44:12

address 29:13

29:17

addressing

31:16

adequate 30:23
admissions

11:11

admit 11:4
adopted 27:11

32:3

17:12 18:1
48:2

advantages

20:18

adversary 38:23
adverseness

34:15 38:22,24
39:7

advocated 47:13
affirmative 12:5
agency 3:23
4:13 5:20
14:17 16:9
17:17 31:21,22
33:9 35:21
36:23 37:1,5,8
37:17 38:10
54:13

agglomerate

agglomeration

agglomerator

5:19

8:2

8:5

aggravated

46:22

aggregate 15:12
aggregated 16:5
aggregating

42:5

aggregation
21:19 25:17

aggregator 6:17

6:25 8:22 9:21
11:14,21,23
12:10,13,15
21:22 22:2,19
22:20,22,24
27:18 28:3,3,4
28:10,15,17,18
30:10 39:8
45:8 55:8,23

aggregators 5:2

11:18 24:4
43:21 45:14
50:14 54:9,11

21:21

agree 29:5 50:15

51:13 53:9
agreed 21:10
60:17 61:2
agreement

30:10,12 45:22
51:12 60:22,24

agreements
45:23 53:7
57:12

agrees 13:3
ahead 7:14

55:15
AL 1:4,7
alike 60:5,5
Alito 33:13,18

33:19

allegation 34:25
allege 35:14
alleging 35:14
allow 4:19 6:12
10:6,11,12,13
59:17

allowed 9:13
10:4 42:20
49:11

allowing 8:8

45:25

alternative

16:15 49:24
58:7

altogether 51:8

amend 49:25
American 32:5
amicus 12:7
amount 5:12

15:3 54:5
55:10 56:4

amounts 41:17
42:6,8,16 50:6
60:3

analyze 43:22
analyzing 48:5

50:10,11

ancient 37:11

answer 5:7 7:11

9:9,22 10:8
11:5 12:21
15:7,23 19:6
19:24 21:1,22
22:5 26:2 27:9
27:15 54:8
56:1,4 59:24
60:9 61:6

answers 12:17

12:19 36:7

anticipate 59:15
anybody 4:11
APCC 1:7 3:5
appeal 20:22
APPEARAN...

applies 26:5

apply 7:3 26:4

1:15

54:14

33:16

approaches 15:5
appropriate
23:20 27:13
36:10

April 1:10
arguably 29:20

55:19

argue 7:20
16:15 33:8

arguing 32:13

32:16 34:5

argument 1:13

2:2,7 3:3,7
13:7 28:24
32:21 34:11
38:8,14,24
54:20 58:17

arises 15:2
arose 31:5 32:18
arrangement

6:16 8:16

article 3:20,25
4:12,19,24 5:7
5:13,16,25 6:1
6:12 7:10,23
9:11 15:2,14
16:20 17:2,3,6
17:8 21:14,15
22:6 26:19,21
26:24 31:24,25
33:5,15,25
34:4,7 35:15
35:18,20 38:13
38:16,21 39:4
53:18,19,21,25
54:2,3,5
articulated

20:17

ASARCO 17:1

17:9 33:21

aside 35:1 50:10
asignees 43:9
asked 21:4 36:5

43:13 51:19
54:6 55:7 61:9
asking 20:3 46:3

46:4,7 51:24

assert 7:5
asserted 44:4
assign 8:1
assigned 9:4

37:14 40:16,23
54:12

assignee 3:20,22
4:5,8 6:9 12:21
12:24 13:16
14:24 15:1
29:10 30:14
32:8,9,9,15

A

abandon 6:5
ability 15:16
19:19 38:6

able 8:17 17:20
above-entitled

1:12 61:24
absence 27:9

34:15

absent 26:11,12

26:12 57:20

absolutely 30:18

33:17 59:15
60:6

abstract 58:2
abstractions
45:24 53:24
accident 19:17
account 16:14
accounts 18:7,9

18:9 21:7
acquire 56:7
acquiring 56:9
action 3:18 6:17

7:1 23:23
25:18,19 37:16
40:5,10,15,15
40:17,18,20,21
40:24,25 41:7
41:8,10,13
42:15,17,18
43:8 49:22
50:1,16,20,23
51:4 53:24
56:8,10,15,19
56:19,23 57:6
57:14,16 58:5
58:8 59:22
61:14

actions 25:10,16

25:17,23,25
41:22,24 42:12
42:21,25 47:24
47:25 51:6,6
activities 39:18
actual 24:25
add 49:25

62

Alderson Reporting Company

33:14 35:23,24
36:2 37:1
38:13 45:25
55:2,17,18,21
59:3 60:23
61:14,18

assignees 29:5

43:9 49:11
54:14,15,20
58:5 61:1

assignee's 29:8
36:17,18 37:7
59:4

assigning 30:13

33:10

assignment 3:16

3:18 4:22,23
7:7 13:1,3 21:7
21:11 27:24
30:7,8,12,22
30:24 31:1,4
37:19,25 38:5
40:9 53:14
60:20 61:13
assignments
3:12,13 6:12
14:3 37:20,21
42:25 54:17,17
54:19,19

assignor 4:7
6:10 8:17
30:15 31:2
38:12 59:3
60:23 61:15,16
assignors 34:10

35:20 45:21
54:12 61:2

assignor's 36:23
37:9,10 38:14
association 34:2

51:9

associational
10:15 27:5
41:8,12,14
59:20

assume 11:17,20

12:1 28:8,16

Official - Subject to Final Review

30:7,7,11
55:12,13 60:4
assuming 30:16
assumption 35:4

35:6 39:10
54:10

assure 38:22
attach 8:25

60:16

attached 22:11
attorney 3:22

4:6 12:25

attractive 20:6
AT&T 44:19

55:9

authority 40:24
authorize 43:8
authorized

22:23 42:22

available 16:16

36:9 44:16
55:10

avenues 14:17
avoid 10:12,13
award 34:3
aware 14:2 47:8

47:9

a.m 1:14 3:2
46:9 61:23

B

back 12:18

13:16 19:5,24
21:3 27:20
31:2 46:3,22
48:18 57:13

bad 52:19
balance 28:20
bank 40:8,9
banking 18:25
bankrupt 28:15
bankruptcy
41:24 56:17
barriers 16:21
basically 27:13
basis 22:14

26:24 35:15

bedrock 26:23
behalf 1:16,18

2:4,6,9 3:8 8:9
9:14 22:20
28:25 39:22
42:17,18 50:25
51:1,11 56:18
57:5 58:18
believe 18:25

beneficiaries

36:5

57:5

benefit 9:24

20:5 22:5 31:2

benefits 8:17

17:20,25 19:20
20:2,12,15
25:14

better 14:8

15:10 42:24
43:2 50:24
beyond 5:15
27:1 61:10

big 5:23,24 6:1
8:11,13 35:17

billions 47:15

48:14 51:21,25

Blackstone's

32:10

bless 23:5
blue 58:1
body 29:17,19

29:23,24 30:22
30:24 32:20
33:4 53:11
bound 17:24

45:20,21,21,23
51:1,3,3,13
60:18,21 61:2
61:12,14,20

bounty 4:15,22

7:7,8 22:11
37:2,6,8
box 14:4
breach 28:18

57:6

break 6:11

Breyer 13:20
14:13 15:7
18:3,5,12,17
18:23 19:5,8
19:13 21:4
46:2,13,18
47:8,14,18
48:11 51:15
52:7,10 61:9
brief 12:7,14
15:18 24:20
34:14 44:5
53:10 57:13

briefs 29:8 58:1
bring 5:20 8:8

8:18 9:13 16:1
17:21 23:5
32:6 44:4,22
50:19,22,25
57:4

bringing 6:3 8:2

35:23 36:2
39:12

brings 8:3 9:25

40:17,18,23
56:17

broken 24:11
brought 23:23

24:13,21 41:13
43:9 46:22
47:24,25 49:1
49:10,22 50:16
51:6

Brown 41:20
built 7:7
bunch 10:20
burden 12:1

24:18

burdens 11:2

17:22 23:7,24
24:23

business 39:22
39:25,25 40:1

button 43:16

C
C 2:1 3:1

63

Alderson Reporting Company

cabbage 14:8,17

47:22

cabbages 14:3
call 35:13 46:5,6

47:5,6,12
50:11 51:23
52:2

called 8:1 14:11

calls 47:15,19

46:8

50:5

care 12:16 34:17
carefully 33:5
carrier 46:7
carriers 39:13
39:14 43:21
45:14 50:14

carry 8:14
cars 14:4
CARTER 1:16
2:3,8 3:7 58:17
case 3:4 5:18 6:6

12:1,5 14:23
15:6,8,21,23
16:15 18:7,15
18:20 19:3,10
19:11 22:13
24:24 25:11
26:23 27:2
29:4,8,14,19
30:7,8 31:13
31:14,17,22
32:4,18,23
33:6,9,10,11
33:21 34:10
36:10,11,12
37:3,4 38:1,8
38:15,16 39:7
39:10,20 41:8
41:13,21 42:16
43:14,19 44:19
44:23 45:3,15
45:17,19 47:11
47:13,22 48:9
48:24 49:1,10
49:24 50:6
51:16,23 52:18

Official - Subject to Final Review

52:25 53:10,13
54:11,23 55:18
57:6 58:1 60:3
60:8 61:7,22

cases 4:9,11
5:10 14:1
15:23 30:24,25
31:3,5,12 33:4
33:23 35:12
41:5 48:4,4,7
54:7 56:23

cash 25:7
Cattleman's

34:1

cause 40:10,15

40:17,20,21,23
40:25 41:10
42:17,25 53:23
56:10,19

causes 40:5,14
40:18 42:18
56:15,19

cent 6:18 46:21
47:6 52:15,15
53:2

cents 46:15

48:13 51:23
52:2,3

century 29:7

32:18,25 33:1
58:9

cert 53:10
certain 9:22

11:4,5

certainly 16:10

16:14 19:7
certification
57:16 59:23
60:8

change 27:19

29:4

Charles 43:7
chase 24:5,18
chasing 11:6

25:19

check 28:2 55:9
Chief 3:3,9,11

5:1 28:21 29:1
33:3 34:13,19
35:3,11,22,25
36:13,16,20,25
39:17 52:23
53:2,6,15,17
54:1,3 56:22
57:2 58:12,19
61:21

choice 17:17

19:19

choose 49:3
chosen 3:18

61:14

choses 56:8
circle 38:19,23
Circuit 14:1

circumstance

41:21

13:5

circumstances
3:19,23 4:7,25
5:12,14 7:12
10:17 16:18
23:21 59:13
cited 29:7 33:4
Civil 10:14 24:9

26:4

claim 4:17 7:21

15:19 17:1
22:3 24:25
28:18 37:15
44:22 46:19
48:13 55:20
claimants 8:1
claiming 5:22

25:15

claims 5:19 6:10
8:1 9:19 12:16
15:9,11 16:8
17:13 24:13
26:14 28:8
46:22 49:21
50:5 52:12
56:8 57:18
clarification

18:6

class 25:19 41:7
41:22 42:17,21
49:22 50:1,16
50:20,23 51:4
51:5,6 56:17
56:23 57:6,16
57:24 59:22
60:8,17

cleanest 5:14
clear 4:15 14:22
22:1 24:2 25:2
26:10,13 35:12

clearly 5:13,15

17:8 23:14
30:25

client 9:7,24

34:17,18 35:10
39:16,22,24
40:1 47:23
52:11,14,16

clients 4:9 39:16
41:1 43:1 44:2
45:19 47:24
48:20,21,21
49:16 51:8,17
53:16 57:1,3
57:11

client's 4:10

35:8

Club 39:17

41:15

Cohen 38:19
Coleman 33:21
collateral 7:20

17:24

collect 13:24
18:14 30:11
35:9 51:10

collecting 40:1
collection 3:23

5:20 12:21
14:16 21:12
29:5 30:22,24
32:9 33:11
38:2,5 43:10
46:1 49:12
54:14,20 58:6

combination

39:2

combine 37:8
come 4:1 23:7

24:7 28:4 38:9
38:15,19,23
40:7 53:24
60:10

comes 17:4

45:24 54:11
comfortable

Commentaries

10:6

32:10

comments 12:14
Commercial

41:20

Commission
14:10 15:21

4:3,5,8 13:22
18:8 41:16,17
41:22 42:4
56:16

commonality

58:24

commonly 41:6
Communicati...
1:3 3:4 14:10
15:21

community 19:1
companies

51:12

Company 1:4

comparable

3:5

27:9

compelling

27:19

compensable

47:6

compensated

8:4,5 47:4

compensation

5:21 35:9
39:14 42:9
51:10

common 3:15,24

concerns 6:13

complained

45:10

complaining

6:20

complaint 22:22
23:16,19 49:25

complaints

24:22

complete 3:18
15:16 61:13

completely
28:12 43:1
61:14,20

computer 43:15

43:20,20,22
48:5 50:10
51:20

concern 34:14

34:16

10:9

concrete 6:3
14:25 15:4
22:6 34:15
38:22,24 39:6
39:21 54:8
56:24 57:8
58:3

concurring

33:22

conduct 22:24
conducting

26:13

confer 31:24,25
Congress's 47:5
consented 51:1

51:2

8:15

consequences

consider 23:19
29:22 42:15

considered

considering

32:19

16:13

consistent 17:6
Constitution

64

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

32:3,11

contemporane...

32:11

context 7:15,21
13:13 19:15,22
24:23 26:5

contract 28:19
contracts 5:2
contradictory

contrary 31:24

60:24

54:15

60:10

60:12

contrivance

convenience

conveys 30:23

38:1,1,2

core 21:17 22:1

22:6 25:4
corner 46:8
correct 30:17

37:18

cost 51:25 52:12
costs 48:12

51:21

counsel 20:4,8

34:13 52:21,22

count 30:1
counterclaim

6:22 7:18 21:5
44:25 45:1,18
60:4

counterclaims

12:6 13:11
17:23 19:10
24:6 27:22
43:23,24 44:1
44:18

country 24:3
coupled 4:22
course 11:9
15:10 52:2
59:11

court 1:1,13

3:10 4:13 6:5
7:23 9:10 11:1

11:8 15:8,9,22
16:12,16,22,24
16:25 17:7,9
17:13,21 18:2
18:21 19:17,18
19:21 20:1,3,5
20:18 21:9,12
22:7 23:5,19
24:1,7,13,17
25:1,22 27:1,3
27:4,15,20
29:2,20,20
31:12,15 32:19
32:23 33:6,24
33:25 34:2,5,8
34:10,25 35:21
36:6,8,9,22
38:9 41:5,19
42:2 48:2,3,10
49:2,4,10,12
49:14 51:11
53:12,20,22,23
54:11,22 56:16
60:14

courts 10:5,12

10:12 16:2
19:3 20:22,23
23:13 26:6,10
26:11 29:6,21
29:25 30:2
32:5,5 34:6
38:7 58:20
Court's 5:9
create 10:11
creation 16:7
credit 34:7
creditor 28:4

55:8,13,15,19
creditors 28:15

41:23 55:14

criticizes 24:21
cross-claims

17:23

D

D 3:1
damages 37:15

deal 5:23,24 6:1

17:4

41:21 42:15
data 3:25 4:14
databases 50:11
day 14:4 35:10

35:10 42:2
52:21

day-to-day 40:3
de 5:11 6:18

15:5

8:12,13 9:1
15:13 17:22
26:3 34:16
44:16

dealing 13:15
17:7 25:3,4

dealt 31:22
death 48:6 52:17
debate 26:21
debt 12:22,24
decedent's 42:1
decide 52:18

53:13

decided 29:12

39:10 59:3
decides 16:21
decision 29:7,17

29:20

decisions 29:17

29:19,21,22
30:5

deduction 56:3
defendant 11:2
44:11 51:18,19
52:10 56:9
59:10,13 60:13

defendants

24:14 26:12,13
27:21 57:21

defense 52:15,21

52:22

define 7:8
delivered 14:3
demonstration

Department

58:24

31:23

depend 9:9

16:11

depends 38:23
depositions

10:24

describe 25:6,20
designed 10:16

59:9 60:13

determination

determine 58:21
detriments

19:21

deviate 26:6
device 6:25
devices 10:11

44:16

difference 9:5,6
13:14 31:7,10
32:17 42:10
53:13,18 55:2
55:5,16,21
different 5:6
6:10 14:23
18:3,6,15
19:11 31:9
33:14 49:21
50:5,5,6,6 51:8
55:15,16 56:15
60:2,3

differentiate

differentiations

10:1

10:3

differently

54:21

difficult 12:10

21:19

difficulty 13:17
dig 51:20,20,25
directly 6:5

13:11 26:17
56:20

disadvantages

disagree 50:17

18:1

57:10

discharge 57:4

57:12

discovery 6:21
7:17 10:18,19
10:22 13:17,20
14:9 17:22
19:9 21:21,23
24:5,22 25:11
25:12 27:22
36:4,8,9 45:4,6
45:16 46:24
48:3 61:10

discretion 60:23

61:4,6

discuss 31:4
discussing 22:9
dismissed 21:24

29:9 49:24
dispute 14:25

15:2

disputes 4:12
13:16 42:8
dissent 3:11
distance 46:5
distribute 55:10
district 24:13

34:2

doctrine 9:10
10:15 37:11
38:12,20 49:11
doctrines 10:15

17:24 26:8
27:6 59:18

document 30:13

doing 8:22 51:10

31:9,9

51:11

dollar 48:12
52:1,3,13
doubt 24:16
draft 53:14
draw 5:14
drawn 5:9
dries 35:16
driven 19:16,18
due 42:16
D.C 1:9,16,18

65

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

E
E 2:1 3:1,1
earliest 31:11,13
31:14,17 32:22

early 32:5
easy 53:3
economically

52:19

economics 52:9
effect 27:7 57:22
effectively 15:19
effects 7:20
efficiency 7:17

59:14

efficient 59:2,4
effort 44:3
either 10:14
18:21 26:7
49:25 53:19
56:2 59:18

elaborate 47:7
elements 14:20

39:3

eliminate 20:20

20:24 22:14
25:9

embodied 57:12

60:14

encourage 20:7
ends 16:22
enforce 8:10

22:7

enforceable

17:5,5

enforcement

34:3

Englert 1:18 2:5
28:23,24 29:1
29:16,24 30:4
30:18 31:3,13
31:17,20 32:8
32:13,16,24
33:2,8,17,20
34:18,22 35:6
35:19,24 36:2
36:15,18,22
37:4,13,25

39:1,6,24 40:6
40:11,16,22
41:7,12,18
42:7,14,23
43:5,18,25
44:15 46:12,17
47:2,10,17,23
49:1,15,18,23
50:8,17,21,24
52:6,8,14,25
53:5,9,16,21
54:2,10,25
55:4,12,25
56:6,12 57:1
57:10,19 58:13

English 32:5
enormous 29:22

29:24

enterprises 5:19
enterprising

51:7

enters 55:17,18
entertain 15:6

16:17

entertained 7:22
entire 9:1 10:3

15:19

entirely 42:7
entirety 3:17

13:9

entitled 25:15
entitlement 5:22

51:14

entity 17:3,4

40:17,23

environment

environmental

39:19

39:20

37:19

2:5,8

17:7

envisioning

ESQ 1:16,18 2:3

essentially 3:13

estates 42:1
estimates 46:11

estoppel 7:20

17:25
ET 1:4,7
everybody 13:3

18:14 21:20

exact 19:14

33:20 56:3,4

exactly 8:22
23:7 46:7

example 9:21
27:21 28:2
41:4 48:12
55:7

executors 41:25
exercise 61:5
exigencies 19:17
exist 13:17
24:24 26:8

existence 35:9

58:7

existing 59:18
exists 39:12 51:9

expensive 46:23

57:20

47:19

56:7

explain 19:23

explaining 12:7
explicated 33:5
expose 23:7
express 40:14
expressly 26:7

50:25

extension 40:3
extent 26:25
extortion 52:18

F
face 20:22
fact 8:10 11:15

14:24 15:10,20
17:4 31:6,8
35:7 38:10,14
39:21 43:11,13
57:25 60:16
facts 11:4 12:2

38:11 50:7

55:15

factual 44:19
fair 20:9
faith 34:6
false 34:22
far 32:17
farmers 40:8
favor 45:6
FCC 14:13,14
15:12,24 16:7
16:20,21 17:11
20:2,6,21 36:7
46:20 47:1,6
47:22,25 48:10
48:23 49:4,8
50:12

Federal 7:22

10:14 15:8,20
15:22 16:2,6,9
16:22 17:12,21
18:2,21 19:17
19:18,21 20:1
20:3,5,18,22
20:23 21:12
23:5,13 24:9
29:6 32:19,22
33:25 34:2,8
36:6,8,9 38:7
42:2 43:10
48:2,3,10 49:2
49:3,10,12,14
54:22 56:16

fee 5:22
fees 23:11
field 16:5
fight 48:6,13
figure 46:14
47:15 48:6
figured 14:5
file 11:11
filing 23:11
final 17:3
finance 18:8
financer 13:23

18:7,14

financing 19:11
find 12:11 36:16

46:4

fine 12:16
firms 51:7
first 3:4 4:14
10:9 12:10
14:1,21 24:19
30:12 32:17
44:19

Flash 38:19
flat 5:21
fluke 16:8,11
follow 15:10
Food 41:20
foreclose 18:13
forever 32:1
forget 35:12
form 15:12 58:8
formality 55:7
forth 13:16
forum 33:15

59:1

forward 53:11
58:23 61:18
Frankfurter's

33:22

free 17:19
friend 58:15
front 15:20,22

25:1

full 12:25 13:2

20:9 34:6
37:10 38:19,23

fundamental

fundamentally

13:14

6:7

further 40:25
future 42:12

G

G 1:16 2:3,8 3:1

3:7 58:17

garnishment

28:13

gather 28:2
general 55:14
getting 19:25

66

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

24:11

Ginsburg 6:15
7:16 16:3,19
16:23 17:10,16
22:17,19 23:1
23:15 27:23
28:11,14 37:12
44:8 54:24
55:1,5,6,22
59:19,21 60:1
60:6

Ginsburg's

19:25

give 12:18 30:5
30:11 39:19
40:11 41:4
46:15

given 25:11 34:6

61:7

gives 31:16,17
giving 6:25

51:15

go 7:14 11:6
14:13 17:21
18:2 19:5 20:1
20:1,21,23
21:2 24:5,14
24:18 27:20
44:4 45:8 46:3
46:14 48:18
49:3 50:23
51:13 53:18
61:11,18

goes 19:24 26:16
26:17 27:1,16
28:15 58:23
going 3:13 9:9
13:23 17:12
23:10 25:20
27:2 43:14
48:19 50:7
51:25 52:1,11
52:12 53:11,12
53:13 55:17
57:17 59:17

good 36:7 57:19
gotten 34:3

governments

41:25

grant 3:17
great 34:16 39:7
ground 3:15,24

4:3,5 50:4

grounds 22:13

30:21

grown 47:22
guess 20:7 26:16

46:2

guessing 56:1

H
hail 11:1
half 4:21
hand 19:15

22:15

hands 61:19
happen 22:1
55:18 56:11
happened 41:5
happens 16:9

21:6 35:1 42:1
42:18 52:21
56:12,13,13,14

happy 52:16
hard 25:6
heaped 59:12
hear 3:3
heard 41:6,6

54:8

hearing 61:23
held 17:1,9

31:24 35:21

help 12:4,6
helpful 37:6
higher 55:20
home 50:23
Honor 22:18
34:23 41:19
44:15 47:2,23
55:25 57:11
Honors 8:16
huge 30:22 55:4
hundreds 41:23
hypo 30:6

hypothetical 7:6
14:22,24 25:3
30:25

I
ICC 34:4
idea 12:11
identical 30:9,9
identified 4:14
identify 15:18

58:3

III 3:20,25 4:12
4:19,24 5:7,13
5:16 6:1,13
7:10,24 9:11
15:2,14 16:20
17:2,3,6,8
21:14,15 22:6
26:19,21,24
31:24,25 33:6
33:16,25 34:4
34:7 35:15,18
35:20 38:13,16
38:21 39:4
53:18,20,21,25
54:2,3,5

imaginable 58:6
imaginary 51:16

51:19,23

immediately
20:23 49:5

importance 5:25

6:8

important 6:4

41:1 53:22
importantly

40:24

inadequate 4:19
incentive 12:11

48:9

inclined 16:17
including 23:25

31:23 38:9
43:9

income 55:24

56:2,3

independent

36:1

individual 6:21
13:12 45:1,5
49:21,25 51:21

individually

47:12,20 48:13
60:17

individuals

50:25

inferior 58:5
information

11:15,18,21,24
12:12,13 13:7
21:6 24:14
45:8,12,13,13
50:13

informed 27:5
inherently 60:24
injunction 42:12
injuries 42:4
injury 35:13,15
36:1,17,19,23
41:16,17 42:5
54:8,12,12
56:24 57:8
59:9

insolvency

55:12,17,19,20

instance 24:19
instances 11:22
institution 15:13
insufficient 4:17
intended 29:10
interest 4:10 8:3
8:6 9:4 13:23
14:25 15:1,4
18:9 23:14
35:13,20 37:9
37:10 38:1,3
38:11 39:21
42:4 51:14

interested 41:15
interesting

60:19

interests 18:13
interfere 15:15
interpleader

67

Alderson Reporting Company

44:13

interprets 9:10
interrogatories

11:5,11

interrupted

41:9

inure 9:24
investigate 12:2
invokes 33:24
invoking 34:8
involved 60:3
involving 6:10
irrelevant 33:19
irrevocable 8:21
issue 9:15,16

22:9 29:12,14
29:18 31:16
45:5 56:21
58:25 59:7
issues 43:13
i.e 30:10
J
job 12:7
join 23:16,18

44:11

joinder 23:20
joined 43:10
joint 25:18
JR 1:18 2:5

28:24

judge 3:11 14:10

14:10 37:19
43:7 49:23
54:16

judged 50:7
judgment 31:16

31:18 33:15
57:23 60:18
61:12

judicata 7:19
17:24 57:22
judicial 32:2
jurisdiction
4:24 11:7
14:11 15:25
17:2 24:1,8

Official - Subject to Final Review

33:24 34:8
53:20,22,23
jurisprudence
29:13 53:25

justice 3:3,9 4:2
5:1,17 6:15,23
7:14,15,25
8:11,20,21 9:3
9:8,15,20
10:18,23,25
11:9,17,19,20
11:25 12:20
13:2,6,13,20
14:12,13 15:7
16:3,4,19,23
17:10,16 18:3
18:5,12,17,23
19:5,8,13,23
19:24 20:11,14
20:20 21:2,3,3
21:15,18 22:17
22:19 23:1,9
23:15 24:10
25:8 26:15,18
27:7,23 28:11
28:14,21 29:1
29:11,16,21
30:1,4,19,21
31:3,11,14,19
31:21,23 32:12
32:14,22 33:1
33:3,13,17,19
33:22 34:13,19
35:3,11,22,25
36:5,5,13,16
36:20,25 37:12
37:18,22 38:18
39:1,2,17 40:4
40:7,13,19
41:3,9,14,19
42:3,11,14,20
42:24 43:2,8
43:11,19,23
44:8 45:7 46:2
46:13,18 47:8
47:14,18 48:4
48:11 49:15,19

50:3,9,15,17
50:19,22 51:15
52:7,10,23
53:2,6,15,17
54:1,3,24,25
55:1,5,6,22
56:6,22 57:2
57:15 58:12,19
59:6,8,16,19
59:21 60:1,6
60:15 61:1,8,9
61:21

K

keep 34:20,23
34:24 37:2
39:9,11 47:7
53:7 58:2
keeps 32:15
Kennedy 12:20

13:2,6,13
24:10 36:5
40:4,7,13,19
41:3,9,14 42:3
42:11,14,20,24
43:2 50:15,18
50:19,22 57:15
59:6,8,16 61:8

kind 13:25

14:11 22:11,15
35:12 37:19
43:8 48:17
52:18

kinds 8:14 61:17
know 5:22 12:15

15:4 16:13
18:16,20,23
19:1 20:11,14
20:16 23:19
26:25 32:17
33:8 36:25
43:16 44:13,20
46:6 47:16,20
48:22,24 51:2
56:1,4,23
57:22 61:5,6

L

large 36:10

largely 4:16

47:22

19:16

largest 48:1,1
late 14:4 32:24

32:24 33:1
latest 33:6,11
Laughter 30:3

37:24

law 29:4,19

30:22,24 32:20
33:4 40:13
51:7 53:12
54:17

lawsuit 29:9

32:7 35:14,15
35:23 36:3,6
49:16,18,20
56:18

lawsuits 44:5,18

45:25 49:16

lawyer 4:7 52:16
lawyers 25:6
lawyer's 4:17
leaving 50:10
left 61:15,15,16
legal 8:15 9:1
10:4 27:24
28:1 52:4 55:1
55:3 57:3,11
let's 6:17 14:22

21:16 22:1
24:2 48:6,7

level 20:24
limit 10:16
53:20,22
limitations

15:14,15 27:3
line 5:8,14 35:16

55:15

liquidated 41:17

42:5,8

litigate 49:7
52:17 59:7
60:11

litigated 15:20

15:21 19:3
38:7 59:1

litigating 29:6

49:6 59:2

litigation 3:15
5:3 6:4,14 8:8
8:18 9:13,25
10:6,11,16,22
11:2 15:18
17:21 19:20
20:24 22:4,15
22:24 23:6,23
23:25 25:6,24
26:4,7 39:15
40:2 41:21,25
44:1,6 51:8,9
58:23 59:12

little 43:12
logical 16:25
long 8:7 23:17

46:5

longer 10:5
long-held 9:12
look 27:2,16

looked 29:18

51:24

54:18

lose 21:16
loses 34:17,21

34:21

losing 16:22

39:5,8

lost 44:24,25

45:17,18 61:20

lot 6:24 12:8
18:21 36:4
40:8,8 43:2
49:20 60:5

lots 28:5
lower 10:12

29:21,25 30:2
34:6,25
luck 16:6
L.P 1:4

M

magic 40:20
making 7:2 15:8
mass 6:14 8:18

10:16 26:3

massive 43:20
master's 45:6
matter 1:12 6:2
7:23,23 9:12
13:15 15:24
38:25 43:16
44:19 45:15
50:9 59:1
61:24

maximizes

60:11

mean 5:23 8:7

8:12 9:18
10:22 12:17
16:8,23 18:19
18:21,23 20:21
23:4 24:2,20
26:21 28:7
44:9 46:20
48:17 49:20
53:18 54:4
60:9

means 58:8,24
mechanism
26:13 59:2

meet 54:4
melt 56:10
member 60:16
members 39:20

57:24

mention 44:9
mentioned

10:18 19:11

mentioning 19:9
mere 3:22
merely 40:2
met 42:21 51:7
metaphysical

40:14

Miller 33:22
million 36:11

47:11

millions 52:14

68

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

oral 1:12 2:2 3:7

8:15

mind 15:22

60:24

minimis 5:11

6:18 15:5
minor 15:3
minutes 58:14
misimpression

37:23

missing 41:3

43:17,18
mom 45:11
Monday 1:10
money 28:5

32:15 34:20,24
35:5 36:21
39:9,11 40:9
43:17 48:15
55:9

moneys 28:16
morning 3:14
Morton 41:15
mounted 59:22
moved 49:24

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
name 43:9
named 22:21

23:3,17 56:24
56:24

names 24:3
naming 22:21
nature 53:1
necessarily 5:25

17:23 18:21

necessary 21:23
36:10 44:9,10
46:14

need 11:15 18:6
24:14 27:16,19
29:4 57:17
needs 39:20
negates 38:5
never 44:2,2,3,6

49:9,9 54:21
nevertheless

15:5,6

nice 12:7
nine 44:1,6,21
44:23 49:4,6
normal 18:25

27:22

notions 17:6
number 33:23

46:9

O
O 2:1 3:1
objections 7:2,5
obligation 27:25

30:14

obligations 57:3

57:11 60:25
observed 3:11
obtain 24:5,6
obtained 33:15
obtaining 39:13

39:13

obviously 17:11

37:1 60:11
odd 44:12,23

45:3

offensive 8:16
offhand 9:5
oh 13:7 21:4
39:1 55:4

okay 7:1 22:1
51:24 60:9
old 46:4 49:4

54:7

52:2

ongoing 41:16

42:3,8,9

open 14:17,17
operate 13:11
operation 40:3
operations

45:11

operators 12:9
13:19 17:19
28:9 39:23,25
opinion 33:22

41:19 48:16,25

oppose 59:22

60:7

opposed 50:1,3
opposing 9:25
opposite 51:17
opposition

53:10

28:24

60:10

42:16

order 24:5 45:7

ordinary 24:24

ought 5:9 7:22
11:3 22:7 26:4
26:24 27:20
43:15

outcome 5:15
14:25 15:1
26:23

outgrowth

16:25

outset 21:11
outside 39:14

40:2

overpaid 12:9
owe 28:5 40:8,9

43:17

owes 48:7
owing 50:6

44:5

paid 48:16 55:9
paradigm 25:24

26:6 27:21
parent 41:24
parity 3:21
Park 43:7
part 4:4 6:1,25
30:11,13,14
32:2 37:14
45:12 59:10
60:20 61:8

partial 4:23
particular 4:9
4:11,18 10:7
11:10 13:12
26:14 59:13
particularized

10:17

particularly

parties 3:15,24

34:8 39:4,7
44:9,10 45:2,5
52:8

party 6:3 9:25

10:21 11:14,16
16:22 24:25
33:24

party's 61:19
pass 14:6 17:19
patriot 41:24
pay 6:10 23:5,9
27:25,25 30:14
42:13,13 52:3

payable 28:3
paying 48:15
payment 31:2
payphone 12:9
13:19 17:19
28:9 35:9
39:13,23,25
42:9 46:5,8,16
47:3,5,12
51:10

penny 5:4 7:9

25:5

penny's 22:3
people 10:20
14:8,18 24:3
31:23 40:8
42:18 51:1,24
53:14 56:14,18
56:20

percent 4:15

5:22 7:9,9 34:9

perfect 25:23
permission

40:25

permits 49:2
person 8:2 12:22

25:12 46:15
personal 8:6
11:7 24:1

personally 8:4

20:8

perspective

17:14,15 59:5

petition 16:7
Petitioners 1:5
1:17 2:4,9 3:8
58:18

Phillips 1:16 2:3
2:8 3:6,7,9 4:4
5:5,24 6:16 7:4
7:15 8:7,13,24
9:8,18 10:2,21
10:25 11:13,19
11:22 12:4,23
13:5,8 14:12
14:20 16:12,23
17:14,18 18:4
18:11,16,19
19:2,7,12,14
20:7,13,16,25
21:14,16,25
22:18,25 23:4
23:13,18 24:16
26:2,17,20
27:14 28:7,12
28:16,22 29:3
33:21 36:4
41:2 43:13
54:15 55:8
58:14,17,19
59:7,11,20,24
60:6,15,19
61:3,22

phones 6:10
picture 44:14
piece 6:17 7:1
place 26:5
places 12:14
plaintiff 6:19
17:16 22:22
23:22,25 24:12

P

once 8:11 26:14
ones 20:17 48:1

P 3:1
page 2:2 24:20

69

Alderson Reporting Company

25:1,5,11
34:12 37:16
42:25 51:19,23
56:24

plaintiffs 10:13
15:11,25 16:5
17:15,18 19:19
22:21 23:3
24:4 26:11,12
27:21 38:6
44:12 49:3
50:1,1 57:20
play 49:8 58:21
please 3:10 29:2

42:13

point 10:13 18:5

23:22 27:8
35:1 40:20,22
44:15 49:9
53:10 58:15
pointed 16:20

points 3:25 4:14

48:4

47:2

pop 45:11
pose 7:6
posed 6:5
position 19:20

23:16 30:16,20
31:8 51:18
54:16,16

possession 43:20
possible 14:9
34:23 36:3
39:3

postulated 45:7
potential 61:19
potentially

10:10

power 3:22 4:6
11:16 12:25
32:2

powers 6:2 22:8
practical 13:25

18:25 45:15
50:9 53:11

7:2,5,12,23
9:10 10:9
15:15 22:14
23:2,11,12
25:21 26:16
27:2,10,12

prudential-sta...

27:8

45:13

PSP 28:17 44:22

PSPCs 55:11
PSPs 6:21 28:1
44:10,25 45:1
45:4,9,10,20
50:13 55:14,21

pure 50:9
purely 45:15
purpose 38:5
39:12 46:21
47:5

purposes 38:2,4

38:13 55:23
pursue 22:4

57:14

Push 52:8
pushing 43:16
put 11:1 12:5
30:6 43:6,7
45:24 51:17
puzzled 43:12

Q

quarrel 9:11
question 3:19
7:11 10:9,10
15:3,7 18:20
19:5,25 20:4
21:3,17,20
22:2,8 24:17
25:4,21 26:22
30:6,19 32:20
35:4 43:11
47:14 48:18
54:18 55:7
56:1 61:4,9
questions 7:18
16:13 21:23

36:7 54:7

qui 6:19 31:22

37:15,16
quite 38:16
47:18 50:5
52:22

quotes 12:14
Qwest 12:7,12

R

R 3:1
raised 29:12
ran 46:15
rational 52:9,19
reach 21:20 28:5
read 15:17 43:6

58:1

real 9:15,16

18:20

really 5:18,23
19:24 25:22
45:23 46:16
48:15 50:8
56:4

reason 5:8 27:20
33:20 34:14,16
35:8 48:8 49:4
49:13 59:16

reasonable 50:4
60:22 61:3,4,5
reasoning 37:5

38:10

reasons 4:17
18:24 36:3
57:19 60:1
REBUTTAL

2:7 58:17

receipt 36:21
receivable 18:8

18:10 21:7
receivables
13:23,24

receives 3:22 4:6

61:18

receiving 3:21
recognize 5:10

27:10

Official - Subject to Final Review

45:15

precedent 52:20
precedential

29:14

proceed 10:6

proceeding

49:13

17:20

predominance

proceedings

58:25

preference

19:19

prepared 12:2
presentation

preserve 53:19

3:14

59:10

presume 5:19
pretty 23:11
prevailed 54:22
prevails 28:3

54:22

price 23:4,9
primary 14:11

principle 6:4

15:24

54:13

55:20

principles 16:10

prior 32:4
private 25:24
probably 9:9
10:5 43:12

problem 6:11,21
11:23 13:21,21
14:18,21 15:2
18:25 19:4,8,9
21:5,7 25:10
25:19 47:21
48:17 52:5
53:3,8

problems 6:20

7:16 14:1
19:10,14 51:5
59:6 61:10
procedural

44:16 46:23

Procedure
10:14 24:9
26:4

7:22

proceeds 5:3
28:6,7 29:10
30:15 34:10
37:17 55:23

process 6:8 7:18
9:1 24:8 39:15
40:2,14 49:9
59:14

processes 48:3
promise 31:7,8
promises 31:6
proof 12:1
proper 34:11
53:21 60:7
properly 34:6

47:13

proposed 17:11
proposition
33:23 37:6
38:4

Prospectively

53:5

protect 9:3

39:18,18 57:20
57:21

protection 41:1

58:4,16,20
protections

26:10 57:25
58:2 60:13

prototype 15:18
prove 52:13
proved 34:24
provide 12:13
15:16 25:12
provided 5:2
providers 47:4
provides 58:16
prudence 13:15

16:13

pragmatic 36:3

procedures 43:3

prudential 6:13

70

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

recognized 58:9
record 24:11

51:21

records 43:20

43:20,22 44:20
46:3,10,14
47:7 48:5
50:11 51:20,22
51:25

recover 53:8
recovers 37:1
red 57:13
redress 39:13
redressability

56:25 57:8

redressed 36:21

36:24

reduce 55:10
refer 54:6
referred 32:10
referring 58:2
regard 6:20 25:9

60:12

regime 9:1 10:4
regulated 27:11
regulates 10:4
regulation 16:6
rejected 32:20

34:11 37:5
38:8,15

relationship

relationships

28:9

8:14

relatively 36:11
relator 37:15
relevant 11:15

11:18,21 48:24
relied 38:11,12
relief 15:16
reluctant 5:8
remain 10:9
remand 39:11
remedies 14:9
remedy 3:17
13:10 20:9
61:19

remember 6:8
reminds 13:22
reparations

34:3

report 55:23

56:2,2

reported 41:20
representative
40:20 41:21
56:17 57:7
representing
41:23 51:18
56:14

represents 3:16
reproduced

requests 11:11

57:13

12:12

require 23:2

25:22 57:13,14

requirement
22:6 26:24
requirements
10:13 58:22
59:8

requires 31:1

57:16

requiring 6:2
requisites 42:21
res 7:19 17:24

57:22

reserve 28:20
resides 45:13

50:13,13

resolve 22:12

27:4

resolved 45:5

58:25

respect 6:22
12:6 18:17
19:8 30:4
34:23

respectfully

57:10

Respondents

1:19 2:6 15:17
28:25

Respondent's

response 14:19

24:20

30:21

responsibilities
8:19,25 9:6,23
9:24

responsibility

21:22 24:12,15
responsible 13:9
restricts 53:22
result 51:14

58:10

results 55:16
retain 35:5
reversed 50:2
reversing 26:25
review 16:19,22
rewards 5:23
rid 53:3
ridiculous 52:12
right 3:17 4:18

9:18 12:23
13:8,10,10
15:12,23 17:5
17:5 18:11,19
19:2 20:23
21:9,14,16
22:25 23:13
25:13 27:14
38:1,3 43:16
46:19,25,25
47:1,14 49:6
59:15 61:18
rights 4:22,23
8:10 44:25
45:1,4,16,18
59:10 61:15

ROBERTS 3:3
5:1 28:21 33:3
34:13,19 35:3
35:11,22,25
36:13,16,20,25
39:17 52:23
53:2,6,15,17
54:1,3 56:22
57:2 58:12

61:21

role 3:23 49:8
route 17:11
ROY 1:18 2:5

28:24

rule 10:14 26:9
27:5,9,10,11
29:25 41:7,10
41:22 42:15,22
43:4,5,7 44:2,3
44:17,17 46:23
56:13 57:15,17
57:19 58:3,5,7
58:16,22 59:18
60:14

rules 14:15 24:9
26:4,8 43:3,6,8
59:14

run 22:23
S
S 2:1 3:1
satisfied 3:25
4:12,20 5:4,6
5:13 58:23

satisfy 5:7 6:12

7:10 33:25
34:4,7
save 54:5
saying 7:6 12:13
18:24 21:18,19
27:7 45:7,23
51:12 54:13

says 12:15 29:13

37:8,9 43:24
43:25 44:3
47:3 52:10,14
61:4

Scalia 4:2 5:17
6:24 7:14,25
8:11 16:4
29:11,16,22
30:1,21 31:11
31:14,19,21
32:12,14,22
33:1 37:18,22
38:18 39:1,2

43:23 49:15,19
50:3,9 54:25
56:6

Scalia's 8:21
scores 47:24,25
second 4:4,21
10:8,8 30:10
31:7,8 35:8
44:20

secretary 34:1
section 47:3
secured 18:9,13

55:13,14

see 9:5,23 10:1
10:19 13:21
14:10 24:11
25:14 33:4
43:7 49:10
seeking 34:2

44:11

sense 14:16
Sentelle 3:11
37:19 49:23

Sentelle's 54:16
separate 25:10
25:16,16,23
28:1 35:13
44:5,18 56:8,8
60:21

separately 23:17
separation 6:2

22:7

series 45:24
serious 7:18
10:10 19:4
44:18

serve 4:6 11:11
11:13,14 22:14

service 47:4
Services 1:7 3:5
set 46:23 47:6
50:12 52:19
60:22
sets 26:9
settle 40:24 48:4
48:7,8,9 52:8
52:11,20

71

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

settlement 48:11
settlements

58:21

Seventh 41:20
shoes 38:14
show 22:23
39:20 57:7

side 20:8 51:22

Sierra 39:17

60:12

41:15

sight 21:17
signed 45:22

51:12

significance

27:23 53:11,19
54:24 60:16

significant 5:18

6:18 7:21
simple 6:12
12:23 30:6
simply 5:20

15:25 24:23,25
26:25 31:5
59:16

single 12:22
13:15 23:18
29:16 32:18,19
45:20,22 58:3
situation 11:10
13:18 19:16,18
22:12 26:14
48:15 61:17
situations 5:11

12:8 44:17
60:2 61:17
small 29:17

36:12

solely 26:22 29:9
solve 52:4
somebody 14:2
somewhat 46:4
sorry 7:14 11:19

20:13 22:18
25:8 36:13
45:20 50:21
55:25

sort 4:13 16:6
27:11 42:12
56:10

sorts 51:5
sought 24:22
Souter 8:20 9:3

9:8,15,20
19:23 20:11,14
20:20 21:2,15
21:18 23:9
25:8 26:15,18
27:7 30:4,19
31:3 36:5

Souter's 41:19
so-called 60:17
speaking 52:23

52:23 53:2

special 14:6 45:6
specific 58:20
specifically

31:15 33:10
37:5

Spiller 16:24,24

17:8 31:18
33:14 34:1
Sprint 1:3 3:4
44:20 55:9
stake 4:8,18

5:12,15 6:3,18
22:3,6 25:5
26:23 37:16,16
39:5,8 47:11

stakeholder

44:14

stand 33:23
standard 12:21

21:11 26:6
standing 3:20

5:10 6:13 7:12
9:10 10:15
13:4,21 14:18
14:21 15:15
16:10 21:13
22:14 23:11
25:13 26:16,19
27:5,10,12,18
29:12,14,18

30:23 31:16,24
31:25 32:8,9,9
35:18,20 37:7
38:16,20 39:4
39:19 41:8,12
41:15 52:7
57:7 59:20
stands 38:13
start 17:2 58:15
State 19:3 21:8

41:24

stated 30:13
States 1:1,13

37:14

statute 14:6
46:21 49:2

step 20:20
Stevens 10:18
10:23,25 11:9
11:17,19,20,25
21:3 43:11,19
45:7 48:4
60:15 61:1

stipulated 21:10
stop 28:5 37:10
stopping 42:5
stretch 25:25
strikes 27:19
strong 38:16
strongly 29:5

33:9

subject 23:24
29:15 39:11
submit 24:7
submitted 11:7

61:22,24
submitting

23:25

subpoena 11:16
Subpoenas

10:23

substitute 59:17
sue 8:6 9:16,17
9:21,22 11:1
12:17,18 22:20
27:21 38:6
39:20 49:5,12

sued 56:20 57:6

18:7

57:24

suffered 54:9
sufficient 4:16

32:6

sufficiently 5:11
suggest 27:4
suggested 6:24
suing 33:14
39:22,25

suit 5:20 7:1 8:3

21:23 57:4
suits 41:22
suit's 21:24
sum 53:7
superior 58:6
support 35:18

35:19

supports 33:9
suppose 28:2
40:8 51:18
59:21

supposed 42:13
Supreme 1:1,13

49:3

sure 5:5 9:19
26:20 32:12
38:2 40:11
58:22 59:24

surprising 58:10
surrendering

52:17

system 15:19
38:23 47:7,8
50:12 52:4
58:4

T

T 1:18 2:1,1,5

28:24

take 6:18 15:11
15:23 16:8,14
18:9 57:17
59:22

taken 17:12

28:17

takes 6:9 13:23

talk 36:4 44:13
talked 41:10
talking 6:9

12:25 14:22,23
18:18 23:10
37:20

talks 60:22
tam 6:19 31:22

37:15,16
tax 55:22
taxpayer 5:9
tell 40:4 46:7
terms 6:7 14:16

30:10 31:1

Thank 3:9 28:21
29:1 58:11,12
58:19 61:21

theme 3:14
theory 24:4

44:10 50:10

thing 8:20 11:10

38:21 51:10
52:19 56:16
things 13:22

29:3

think 3:14,24

4:4,11,16 5:6,6
6:1,2 9:9,12
10:10 15:6
16:12,25 19:12
19:14 20:9,17
22:13 26:2,21
27:3,14 30:20
38:16 42:9
46:21 49:13,21
55:13 59:15
60:7 61:8
thinks 14:11

23:20

third 11:16

third-party

29:20

24:21

thought 21:10

23:10,15 31:23
32:5 34:16

72

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

35:3,11 37:12
37:13,17 51:16
53:24

Three 58:14
throw 58:8
tie 53:17
tied 4:18
time 27:18 28:20

42:19 46:13

times 38:7 54:6

54:18,21

title 27:25 28:1
38:1,3 55:1,3
Titus 33:11,13

34:5

today 3:4
tools 43:21
tort 6:14 8:18
10:16 26:3

total 31:1 51:16
track 36:14

47:19

trade 51:9
tradition 8:8
45:25 53:25
54:4,5,7
traditional
53:23 58:8

traditions 9:13
transfers 27:24
treated 37:14

54:20

tremendous

trial 12:3 24:17
tribute 52:15

39:6

53:3

tried 44:6
trouble 35:17
true 8:24 17:6

27:25 35:1
42:10,22 50:8

trump 53:25

54:4

trust 8:2,9,10,14
8:21,22,25 9:4
9:14,17,21,25

57:6

trustee 8:3 9:16
40:18 41:8,13
56:14,17,23,24
57:3

trustees 8:8 9:13

9:22 41:23
trusts 10:4
truth 27:17
try 44:21
trying 36:16
turn 5:2 11:3,4

26:22 28:1
34:9 48:23
57:14

turned 46:6
two 3:25 4:14
10:2 13:22
14:8,20 29:19
29:22 31:6
38:9 39:3
45:22

type 59:9
typical 42:15

typicality 59:9
typically 31:5

51:3

51:6

U

ultimately 5:16
unanimous

29:19

unattached 4:15
uncommon

41:18

underlying 6:8
understand 7:10

11:12 20:4
42:11 48:17
understanding

understood 9:14

33:5

32:2

undertakes

39:18

unfavorable

48:20,21

United 1:1,13
37:13 41:19

unquestionably

23:21

unrelated 28:12
unsecured 55:14
upholds 31:15
use 7:17 11:16

44:7

useful 49:8
usually 39:14

40:1 42:3
U.S.C 47:3
V

v 1:6 3:5 33:21

38:19 41:15,20

value 29:14

51:22

variety 12:14
vehicle 16:1,16
Vermont 4:13
31:21,22 33:9
35:21 36:23
37:1,5,7,17
38:10 54:13
view 48:18,20

48:21
vis 9:6,6
W

want 7:8 10:11

15:11 25:11,22
25:25 28:5
30:6 33:10
48:14 51:3,12
59:12

wanted 36:4
wants 52:16
Washington 1:9

1:16,18

wasn't 17:11
way 5:21 8:4,5,9

10:7 14:5
16:21 25:8
29:18 31:4

46:19 47:21
48:22 52:4
53:19 56:12,13
57:18 58:6
59:4 60:11
weight 30:5
went 14:2 34:2
weren't 16:16

42:10

We'll 3:3
we're 6:9 14:21
14:22,23 25:3
33:3 59:17

we've 22:9 27:17

49:5

win 20:21
winning 39:5,8
wins 34:17,20
word 37:7
work 27:12

35:16,16 47:1
48:11

worked 15:19
46:20 47:21
48:22

Workers 41:20
works 24:9 43:6
world 59:16
worries 27:1
worrying 44:24
45:4,16,17,19
worth 14:4 22:3
46:16,24 48:13
wouldn't 35:17

53:8 59:19

wrinkle 32:13

32:14,16

wrong 37:18
wrote 37:23

X

x 1:2,8

Y

Yeah 52:14
year 43:10
years 10:5 27:17

44:1,6,21,23
46:22 49:4,6

yellow 58:1

$
$1 51:21
$10 14:5 53:7
$200 36:11

47:11

0

07-552 1:6 3:4

1

1,400 40:5,14

44:4 49:16,25
51:11

10 4:15 7:9
24:20 44:5

10:03 1:14 3:2
100 34:9
11:04 61:23
12 46:15,21

48:13 51:23
52:2,3
14 56:7,8
1400 6:9 13:19

15:9 22:21
23:2,11 24:3
24:21 25:10,15
25:16,22,25
26:13 57:18

17 29:25 43:5,7
18th 32:24
19 44:2,17
19th 29:7 32:18

32:24 33:1
1920 31:18,19

32:4

1939 33:12
1987 46:9
2
2 5:22 7:9
200 10:5 27:17
2000 45:6
2008 1:10
21 1:10

73

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

22 44:3,17
23 10:14 26:9
27:5,10 41:7
41:10,22 42:15
56:13 57:15,17
57:20 58:3,5,7
58:16,22 59:18
60:14
24 47:6
24-cent 47:12
276 47:3
28 2:6

3

3 2:4

4

400,000 6:10
47 47:3

5

50,000 13:25

14:3,4

58 2:9

9
9:15 46:9

74

Alderson Reporting Company

