Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
MICHAEL RIVERA, 
:
                 
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 07-9995 
 v. 
                       
ILLINOIS. 
: 
                       
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, February 23, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 11:05 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
JAMES K. LEVEN, ESQ., Chicago, Ill.; on behalf of the

 Petitioner. 

MICHAEL A. SCODRO, ESQ., Solicitor General, Chicago,

 Ill.; on behalf of the Respondent. 

MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor

 General, Department of Justice, Washington,
 D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
JAMES K. LEVEN, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3 

MICHAEL A. SCODRO, ESQ.

 On behalf of the Respondent 

MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.

 On behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Respondent 

              

25 

REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF 
JAMES K. LEVEN, ESQ.

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

52 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 
argument next in Case 07-9995, Rivera v. Illinois.

 (11:05 a.m.)

 Mr. Leven.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES K. LEVEN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. LEVEN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The Petitioner lawfully exercised a 

peremptory challenge on juror Delores Gomez.  As a 
result of the erroneous denial of that challenge, Ms. 
Gomez wrongfully sat on the jury and lacked authority to 
render a judgment.  Petitioner's conviction should be 
reversed automatically for three separate and 
independent reasons.

 First, the trial before an unlawful 

adjudicator is structural error.  Two, the wrongful 
seating of a juror is structural error, because the 
effect of the error is impossible to determine --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Are you putting -- are 

you equating this with a biased judge?  The -- the 
category of structural error has been kept very narrow 
by this Court.  And it seems to me that a juror who is 
perfectly qualified, who it is conceded -- it is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

conceded could not have been dismissed for cause, is 
quite a different matter than a judge who -- who has 
taken a bribe or who has a monetary stake in the case.

 It -- it seems quite a stretch to apply 
those decisions to -- to the case of a juror who was 
qualified, and it was just a judge who was overexuberant 
in denying a peremptory challenge.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, our unlawful-adjudicator 
claim is not dependent on a finding or showing of bias. 
A -- a juror who is illegally on the jury, who does not 
have the authority to serve, would render the jury 
improperly constituted.  Therefore, there would be 
structural error for a jury illegally constituted to 
render a judgment irrespective of bias.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  But your whole 
argument that the -- that the juror was illegally 
sitting and the jury was illegally constituted is a --
in effect a statement of the effect of State law.  And 
the State supreme court doesn't think that's the effect 
under State law.

 So it seems to me that the -- the full 

premise of your argument that there is something 
inherently unlawful about the seating of that juror is 
simply in -- in effect denied by the State supreme 
court.  And we take our law from them. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. LEVEN:  Well, Your Honor, there are 
State law and Federal law components to this issue. 
Petitioner had a lawful right to excuse juror Gomez 
under Illinois Supreme Court Rule 434.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But no -- no 

constitutional right, no constitutional right to the 
peremptory challenge.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, there is a constitutional 

right to due process involved that is --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But you -- you in effect 

are saying that any violation of State law with respect, 
let's say, to criminal trial procedure becomes, if not 
remedied, a due process violation under Federal law. 
That's -- that's your -- your unstated premise, isn't 
it?

 MR. LEVEN:  No, Your Honor.  The -- our 

argument is very narrow in scope:  That if a -- a jury 
that is illegally constituted renders a verdict of 
guilty, then that jury is an unlawful adjudicator.  The 
unlawful adjudicator claim is what triggers the right to 
due process.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  There could be a thousand 

reasons why under State law a particular jury is 
improperly constituted.  So you are saying whenever the 
State under whatever State laws it has says that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

judge made a mistake about who to put on the jury, that 
that violates the Federal Constitution.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Just as an example, to 

follow up on Justice Breyer's question -- and then can 
you answer his question -- many States have -- have 
rules that you have to be a resident of the county to 
serve on that jury.  And suppose a juror thinks that he 
or she is a resident and gets the county line wrong or 
doesn't know what the residency requirement.  Under your 
rule -- what is your term, an "unlawful adjudicator." 
And then we have a -- we have a -- a Federal 
constitutional standard that requires structural error 
for any State -- for any violation of any State -- State 
rule.  That is Justice Breyer's question.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, with respect to jury 

qualifications such as age and citizenship, there is a 
very delicate screening process that goes into effect. 
So the problem of an unlawful-adjudicator with respect 
to, say, age would be a very, very rare phenomenon and 
would rarely occur, because jurors who are too young to 
serve, perhaps under 18 years old, would never make 
their way to a jury pool in the first place.  So it 
would really be unfair to --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You are -- you are 

avoiding the question by saying, oh, don't worry, there 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

are not going to be many violations of this sort, and 
then you pick out age.  But Justice Breyer began -- the 
preface to his question was -- was that there are -- are 
manifold requirements varying from State to State.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  What you are giving us is 

a sweeping proposition, A, for the constitutional 
principles that you are setting forth; B, for the 
supervision and intrusion it would cause Federal courts 
on the State system.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, if we take the juror's 

qualifications that were discussed in the State's brief, 
it would appear that all the qualifications that are 
discussed there would -- as I said, it would be a very 
rare situation, indeed, for a --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, why?  One 

qualification is that a jury -- a juror can't be 
prejudiced.  All right.  I think it's a very common 
thing for prosecutors and defense lawyers to get into 
arguments about whether a particular juror is or is not 
prejudiced.  Okay.

 So sometimes the judge excuses them, maybe 

five million times a year; and probably in a certain 
percentage, maybe 5,000 or 500 or 50,000, the judge is 
wrong.  All right. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

So the State appellate court says he's 

wrong.  So the jury wasn't made up properly.

 Now you are saying in every one of those 
cases that violates the Federal Constitution.  I have 
never heard of this before.  It may be there is some 
precedent for it.  I don't know.  That's why I am 
asking.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, Gomez versus United States 

set forth the principle equating a right to an 
adjudicator with lawful authority to decide at every 
critical stage of the proceeding.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  So that means that held --
we have held in that case -- I had better look at it --
that in any instance where excusing a juror violates 
State law that that is a violation of the Federal 
Constitution.  Which is the case that says that?

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, that -- that case did not 

involve jurors, Your Honor, but it did involve a 
magistrate who lacked the authority to preside over voir 
dire.  And the court held under a general principle of 
law equating the right of -- the lawful-authority right 
to the right to an impartial jury and used the phrase "a 
basic fair trial right," meaning that the right to a 
lawful adjudicator is a basic fair trial right.  And 
also --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But you are not --

suggesting, because you conceded there was no basis for 
a for-cause challenge, you are not -- you are not saying 
that Gomez was unqualified or that she was biased.  If 
she was biased, you had a basis for that, she could be 
excused for cause.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, there is a reasonable 

possibility of bias with respect to Gomez because of her 
extensive contacts with gunshot victims at Cook County 
Hospital --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But she was an 

administrator.  She wasn't a nurse.  She didn't deal 
with people who had gunshot wounds.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, the Illinois Supreme Court 
held that defense counsel's strike of Gomez was a valid 
reason to have her removed from the jury.  She could 
have, even though she said -- even though she was not 
challengeable for cause, the peremptory challenge is 
there for a purpose, and that is --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You don't need a good 

reason for a peremptory challenge.

 MR. LEVEN:  The peremptory -- if I 

understand.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's the whole fun of a 

peremptory challenge:  You don't need a good reason. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. LEVEN:  Well, the purpose of the 

peremptory challenge is to help to create a fair and 
impartial jury.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Exactly.  And for some 

reason, I just think this person is not going to vote 
for me.  I don't know why.  I just don't think so.  I 
don't want this person sitting on the jury.  That's all 
the reason you need.

 MR. LEVEN:  That's right.  Under Swain v. 

Alabama, a peremptory challenge can be exercised without 
having to state a reason.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, our footnote in a 

later case authored by Justice Scalia indicates 
considerable doubt as to the viability and to the 
correctness of that formulation in Swain.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, with --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Salazar, I think, is 

the --

MR. LEVEN:  Yes, Martinez-Salazar in its 

footnote 4 determined that the automatic reversal rule 
in Swain was subject to reconsideration due to the 
advent of harmless error analysis.

 But I was citing Swain for a different 
purpose.  I was citing Swain for the purpose that a 
peremptory challenge can be exercised without having to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

state a reason, and that's a fundamental --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No. No.  I thought you 

were citing Swain -- and I think you are going to have 
to establish -- that peremptory -- to win your case, 
that there is a constitutional basis, a constitutional 
right to exercise a peremptory challenge, at least --
then you can you have a subset of that -- when the State 
gives it to you.  But I think Swain no longer stands for 
that proposition.

 MR. LEVEN:  I wasn't citing it for that 

proposition, Your Honor.  We have the case of Evitts v. 
Lucey, for example, where the Court was analyzing the 
right to an appeal.  And the Court found that the right 
to an appeal was not of constitutional origin, but once 
the State had created a right to an appeal it had the 
obligation to administer that right consistently with 
fundamental fairness and due process.

 So here we have a peremptory right that the 
State of Illinois wasn't obligated to create.  But once 
it adopted that peremptory right, it was, in effect, 
adopting the long venerable tradition of peremptory 
challenges that has existed in this country since the 
founding.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the -- well, first, 

how many peremptories does Illinois law allow? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. LEVEN:  For non-capital cases, it's 

seven, Your Honor.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, suppose a State 

allowed only three peremptory challenges.  There would 
be nothing in the least unconstitutional about that, 
right?

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, under Ross v. Oklahoma, 

the State had the authority to regulate peremptory 
challenges.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  This was number four, was 

it?

 MR. LEVEN:  I'm sorry?
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The challenge to Gomez 

was the number four peremptory?

 MR. LEVEN:  Yes, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And so, if the State had 

only three which it could do, there would be no basis 
for removing Gomez from the array.  That is, the defense 
would have already exercised three peremptory 
challenges, she's number four, too bad.  That would be 
the end of it, right?  She would sit on the jury.
 MR. LEVEN:  Well, as to our unlawful 

adjudicator claim that would be correct, because if the 
defense did not have a peremptory challenge to exercise 
in order to strike Gomez if the peremptories have run 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

out --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But there is something 
unseemly about saying because the State is generous in 
its peremptories, you have a grand constitutional 
argument to make, even though there is no constitutional 
right to any peremptory challenge?

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, the State is obligated, 
consistent with due process, to provide that which is 
promised.  And the problem --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  That goes back to the point 

which you rejected when I suggested -- I suggested 
earlier that you were in effect arguing that every 
violation of a State statute in this criminal context 
amounted to a due process violation.  And you say, no, 
that's not what I am arguing.  It seems to me that that 
is exactly what you just said to Justice Ginsburg.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, what makes the peremptory 

challenge unique is its venerable tradition since the 
time --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, we were talking about 

peremptory challenges before and we are talking about 
peremptory challenges now.  Have you changed your 
position from -- from the position you stated in answer 
to my question?

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, if I understand correctly, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Your Honor, the case involves peremptory challenges.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Look, the question that I 
thought I was asking and I thought you were answering 
was this:  Do you claim that every violation of State 
law in the -- we'll say in the selection of jurors -- is 
automatically, if not remedied by the State, a Federal 
due process violation?  And you said, if I recall 
correctly, no.

 It seemed to me that in answering 

Justice Ginsburg's question just now you were saying 
yes.  You said the State has to act consistently with 
due process.

 MR. LEVEN:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  So -- so, do you stand by 

the answer you gave me or is it, in fact, now your 
position that every violation of state law that goes 
unremedied becomes a federal due process violation?

 MR. LEVEN:  No, I'm not saying that every 

violation of State law that's unremedied --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  All right.  Then why does 

this one become a due process violation if it's 
unremedied.

 MR. LEVEN:  Because this one involves a 

State violation that resulted in an unlawful 
adjudicator.  Let's take --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, but that -- that then 

goes back to an earlier question.  It's an unlawful 
adjudicator if state law says so.  Federal law says you 
don't even have to have peremptory challenges, you don't 
even have to have a process for winnowing out the Gomez 
jurors.

 So, in effect, if you are saying that there 

is something unlawful about the seating of the juror, 
you are making a statement of State law, and the State 
Supreme Court disagrees with you, which seems to me to 
foreclose your argument.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, the State disagreed with 
our position as to the Federal automatic reversal law. 
The court applied, and we would argue misapplied --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, but the court -- the 

Supreme Court of Illinois did not find anything unlawful 
about the juror sitting.  They said, yeah, the perempt 
should have -- the peremptory challenge should have been 
respected.  But they did not say, and it seems to me 
they clearly rejected the notion, that there was 
something unlawful about the jury and unlawful about 
that juror's participating in reaching a verdict; isn't 
that correct?

 MR. LEVEN:  I would read the Illinois 

Supreme Court opinion -- specifically what they did 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

state is that the trial court was incorrect in denying 
the peremptory challenge, therefore that juror should 
not have sat on the jury, that juror was wrongfully on 
the jury.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, no.  The -- the 

peremptory challenge should have been respected.  But 
the Illinois Supreme Court did not say, as I understand 
it, that by allowing the juror to sit the juror was 
acting in an unlawful capacity, or that there was 
something unlawful under State law about the jury's 
actions and the jury's verdict.

 Am I not correct about that?
 MR. LEVEN:  Well, the Illinois Supreme Court 

only made one statement, that the peremptory was 
wrongfully denied.  Now, as far as elaborating on its 
reasoning --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, if they thought that 
tainted everything that happened afterwards, it seems to 
me they would have said, therefore, the verdict is no 
good.

 MR. LEVEN:  No, because the court misapplied 

this Court's precedent in Neder.  That's the basis for 
the court affirming the conviction.  It had nothing to 
do with the issue of whether or not --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes, but it had everything 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to do, it seems to me, with the issue of State law. 
Regardless of whether they applied or misapplied a 
precedent of ours respect -- with respect to Federal 
constitutional law, it seems to me that the Illinois 
Supreme Court has to have meant it was okay so far as 
the validity of the verdict was concerned for this 
person to participate.

 MR. LEVEN:  The Illinois Supreme Court found 
that the verdict was valid because they thought that the 
error was subject to harmless error review in relying on 
Neder and Martinez-Salazar

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  So ultimately, there was --

there was no error under State law that needed to be 
corrected?

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, there is an error in terms 
of the adjudicator, Ms. Gomez, being seated on the jury 
and under Rule 434 Petitioner had the right to a juror 
that then was not subject to a peremptory challenge. 
Gomez was -- seated on that jury.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But so far as the ultimate 
jury verdict was concerned, the Illinois Supreme Court, 
I understand it to have said, was there is no error that 
needs to be corrected under State law.

 MR. LEVEN:  I don't read the opinion that 

way.  I read --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Then why didn't they 

correct it?

 MR. LEVEN:  Because they thought that the 

error was subject to harmless error review under Federal 
law.  And we would argue the two positions.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  You read -- in other words, 
you read the -- the -- the Illinois Supreme Court as to 
say, this is a violation of our statutes and 
constitution, a violation that would -- would entitle 
this person to have the -- the verdict set aside and a 
new trial, but because the Federal practice, applying 
Federal constitutional law, is to engage in harmless 
error analysis, we won't correct our State law error as 
a matter of State law, and -- and we will in fact apply 
a harmless error analysis that otherwise wouldn't apply 
because it's Federal, and on that ground we will let the 
verdict stand.  Is that the way you read the Illinois 
Supreme Court?

 MR. LEVEN:  No.  The court declined to 
determine whether a constitutional right had been 
violated, but the court applied this Court's precedent 
under Martinez-Salazar and Neder, the Federal harmless 
error automatically reversal law that this Court has, 
and used that to find that the error was subject to 
harmless error review.  The court did not --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But -- but how -- how 
could it do that if there were not some underlying 
Federal constitutional right?  I say "how could it do 
that."  It obvious that they did it; but what -- what 
would be the principle basis for that analysis?  What 
would be the analytic framework that would lead it to 
look to the Federal decisions?  This is a State issue.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, the court did not specify 

why it did so, but it did rely on Neder and 
Martinez-Salazar.  And therefore --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But we are asking you what 
the analytic justification for that course of reasoning 
is if that is indeed its course of reasoning.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, it's hard for me to 

speculate on the thinking of the Illinois Supreme Court. 
But --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, but you have to give 

us a sustainable analytic framework if -- if we are 
going to reverse their decision.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, we argued at the Illinois 
Supreme Court level that due process was violated; but 
the Illinois Supreme Court declined to consider whether 
a constitutional right had been violated, moved 
accordingly to the question of whether or not automatic 
reversal would apply or whether the error would be 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

subject to harmless error review.

 But the Illinois Supreme Court did not say 
anything about whether a constitutional right had been 
violated except it declined to consider that issue, even 
though it was argued at that level by Petitioner.

 Not only do we have a constitutional basis 
for this Court to have access to its automatic reversal 
law; the fact that the court did rely on -- the Illinois 
Supreme Court relied on Neder and Martinez-Salazar gives 
this Court authority to reach the issue of whether or 
not to apply automatic reversal law under -- under its 
authority to correct --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Of course, the Illinois 
Supreme Court was assuming a Federal violation when it 
decided what the reversal rule would be.  But your 
Federal violation determines -- is bottomed on the 
notion that there was an unlawful adjudicator on the 
jury.  Would that reasoning apply, in regard to one of 
the earlier questions, if you have a Cook County jury 
and they had a juror from Dupage County and the law says 
no, you have got to have a local juror, and it turns out 
that they had wrongly seated such a juror?  Would that 
be an unlawful adjudicator?

 MR. LEVEN:  Yes, it would appear so if it --

if a State law stated that, a juror qualification 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

requirement that the juror who presides in Cook County 
must be a resident of the county.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, if you --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  I just have one more 

thought.  And if it is such an unlawful adjudicator, it 
would definitely be Federal constitutional error?

 MR. LEVEN:  Yes, because it would implicate 

the due process clause --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But would it have to 

be -- would it have to be structural error?  I -- I 
don't know why you don't argue that it's structural 
error when the error is a wrongful denial of a 
peremptory challenge, because it is impossible for you 
to establish the harmfulness of error because, as 
Justice Scalia pointed out, a peremptory challenge is 
just a hunch on your part; you don't need any more.  But 
if it's something like he was in Dupage County rather 
than Cook County, maybe that's something where it's fair 
to put the burden of showing harmfulness on the 
defendant.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, Your Honor, the -- the 

State under Chapman would be required to prove 
harmlessness, and I think it would be impossible to 
determine whether this -- this error would be harmful --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, maybe that's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

true.  My point is that may be true with respect to a 
peremptory challenge, but it doesn't seem to me to be 
terribly difficult to say, well, he lives in Dupage 
County and not Cook County, so what's the big deal?
 MR. LEVEN:  Well, under harmless error 

review, the appellate court envisions the actual jury 
that rendered the verdict, whether or not the error 
would have rendered the verdict different had it been --
had it not occurred.  And in this instance, we have a --
we can't analyze it from the perspective of whether this 
jury would have rendered the same verdict absent the 
error, because this jury that rendered the verdict is 
illegally composed, is illegitimate.

 So what the Illinois Supreme Court did in 
analyzing harmless error review is it substituted its 
judgment for -- for the reviewing court, it substituted 
its judgment for the -- for the jury.  The --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But we had an actual 

jury.  It's not as though you had no jury verdict and 
then the court would say -- the court would say, we 
think that this defendant was as guilty as they come; 
but you had a jury with jurors who met all the State law 
qualifications, already made the determination of guilt. 
So that's a little different from the case where, say, a 
judge would attempt the equivalent of a directed 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

verdict.

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, in this case I don't think 

we can look at it from the perspective that the Court 
normally looks at it from when it reviews -- adopts 
harmless error review.  In the normal situation the 
Court looks at whether or not the error contributed to 
the verdict and whether or not the actual jury that 
rendered the verdict would have rendered the same 
verdict absent the error.

 But we don't have -- we can't do it from the 
perspective of the actual jury in this case, because the 
actual jury here is illegal.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Do you think the 

Constitution prohibits the State from going further than 
Batson to protect against the use of peremptory 
challenges for discriminatory purposes?  Specifically, 
is there any reason why a State could not provide that 
whenever -- that a trial judge always has the authority, 
when the judge has any suspicion of discrimination, to 
ask for an explanation from counsel as to the reason, 
without having to establish -- without there having to 
be a prima facie case?

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, that's our position, Your 
Honor, because what the trial judge did in this case is 
asked for a reason without having established any prima 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

facie case.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes, well, that's what 
Batson says has to be done to in order justify the 
strike.  When -- but is there any reason why a State 
couldn't go further to guard against discrimination in 
the use of peremptories?

 MR. LEVEN:  I apologize, Your Honor; I'm not 

sure I understand about going further than.  Under 
Batson there is a three-step process, and the State must 
establish a prima facie case of discrimination before 
the judge is entitled to ask for any kind of 
explanation; and here there wasn't any kind of gender 
discrimination of any kind, according to the Illinois 
Supreme Court.  Therefore, the -- the judge in this case 
was not authorized to even ask for an explanation.  But 
the explanation given by defense counsel is pretty good.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But Justice Alito's 

question is could the State say as a matter of State law 
whenever the trial judge has a hunch that there might 
have been discriminatory purpose involved, may he refuse 
to allow the preemptory challenge?

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, we argued that the judge 

doesn't have sua sponte authority to --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  No, but I -- if the State 

explicitly gave the trial judge that authority, would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that be constitutional?

 MR. LEVEN:  Well, the -- the State has the 

authority to have some regulation of preemptory 
challenge rights.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  The authority to challenge 

preemptory challenge rights entirely?  Right?

 MR. LEVEN:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  So this is not a hard 

question.

 MR. LEVEN:  Yes, the State can abolish 

peremptory challenges if it wishes.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And, therefore, it could 
take the much lesser step of allowing the trial judge, 
if he has any suspicion that a peremptory-challenge 
right is being used in violation of Batson, to disallow 
it.  What is wrong with that.

 MR. LEVEN:  In this case, though, we do have 

peremptory challenges created by the State.  And, Your 
Honor, I request that I -- to reserve the remainder of 
my time.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

Mr. Scodro.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. SCODRO

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. SCODRO:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

please the Court:

 There is no due-process violation here, and 

that takes care of this case at the threshold.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, does it really? 

Suppose I agree with you that there is -- there is no 
Federal constitutional violation.  But I also think that 
in assessing the consequence of a State-law violation 
the Illinois court here was looking to Federal law and 
was trying to apply the Federal law of harmless error.
 If that's the situation, would we not have 

the obligation to determine, or wouldn't we have the 
obligation to determine, whether it was properly 
applying the Federal law of harmless error?  Even though 
it didn't have to, it chose to use the Federal law of 
harmless error to -- to apply to this State violation.

 MR. SCODRO:  Justice Scalia, the briefs 

before the Illinois Supreme Court raise two independent 
grounds for automatic reversal by the petitioner.  One 
was a pure State law for automatic reversal.  The other 
was a due-process violation that would then trigger a 
Federal automatic reversal.

 What the Illinois Supreme Court did 

explicitly is to say, even if there were a due-process 
violation here, we believe as a matter of Federal law 
that would not trigger automatic reversal. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

What certainly applied -- because of some of 
the Federal questions that they have suggested, what is 
implied is that if the Court had believed that as a 
matter of Illinois law there were an automatic-reversal 
rule required, that this was an unlawful juror to the 
extended so profound that it voided the judgment and 
required a new trial, under those circumstances the 
court would never have had to reach that assumption, 
much less go into any of the analysis it did.

 So here the court was faced with both 

claims, rejected both, but to reach the Federal claim 
they must first show a due-process violation.  And 
that's what they failed to do here.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So your answer to 

Justice Scalia's question is what?

 MR. SCODRO:  The answer, Your Honor, is that 

if the court had said, we are going to lockstep our 
Federal -- or, rather, our State harmless-error analysis 
with the Federal question, Federal analysis, and 
whatever they say goes, then I would agree under those 
circumstances this Court could review that and say, you 
got that wrong.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  What -- what case would 

you cite for that proposition?  And you can't say 
Michigan versus Long. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. SCODRO:  I can't say Michigan versus 
Long.  That is an excellent question, Your Honor.  I 
mean I think that -- let me -- let me --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, why did they get it 

wrong?

wrong?

would --

 MR. SCODRO:  I'm sorry, Your Honor?
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Why do you say they got it 

 MR. SCODRO:  Oh, I don't think they did.  I 

JUSTICE BREYER:  Does that mean even if it 

were Federal?  I don't know.  I'm asking.  Again, I 
don't know.

 MR. SCODRO:  We think they analyzed it 

absolutely correctly, as a matter of fact.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Isn't this Johnson versus 

Standard Oil and that sort of thing?

 MR. SCODRO:  Well, I think -- I should say 
if the court -- if the -- if the Illinois court wanted 
to back away from Federal law at this point, they could 
absolutely do so.  And so even if this Court were to 
say, you got it wrong federally, they could, of course, 
at that point say, no, we -- as a matter of State law, 
we are going to apply a Brack standard or a Chapman 
standard. 

28

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE BREYER:  Is that clear as a matter 
-- I don't know.  Again, I'm asking.  Is it clear as a 
matter of Federal law that we have lots of Federal 
trials, and in a Federal trial where a district judge 
makes an error in excusing a juror -- he shouldn't have 
excused the juror, there are many, many reasons for 
doing it, so the jury is not properly as the defense 
lawyer has the right to have it -- that that requires 
automatically a new trial?  Is that clear as a matter of 
Federal law or not?  And I --

MR. SCODRO:  That is not --
JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't know the answer.
 MR. SCODRO:  It is not clear, Your Honor. 
In response to an earlier question they cited Gomez. 
And they -- and there is a line of cases including Gomez 
that are cited in their brief.  Those are Federal 
supervisory authority cases in which the Court said not 
as a matter of due process interpreting the Federal 
statute -- in that case the Magistrate's act -- to 
conclude that --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I am not talking about 

Magistrates, and I'm not talking about due process.  I 
am asking the question, just what I asked.  Now, you 
heard what I asked.  It's about jurors.

 MR. SCODRO:  Right. 

29

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE BREYER:  All right?  What is the 

answer?

 MR. SCODRO:  It is not -- that is not a due-

process violation.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I know.  I'm not asking 
that question.  I am asking when a lawyer -- when a --
when a judge makes a mistake and excuses a juror whom he 
shouldn't have excused because he thought the juror was 
prejudiced, let's say, and he wasn't.  The appeals court 
says, you are wrong about excusing him.  Does under 
Federal law the defendant become entitled to a new 
trial?  Not under the Constitution, under whatever you 
want.

 MR. SCODRO:  I don't believe --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes or no?
 MR. SCODRO:  I don't believe so, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  You think the answer is no, 

okay.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Going back to 

Justice Scalia's question, do you think we would have 
jurisdiction of this certiorari condition if we were 
convinced there was no Federal or constitutional error; 
they were merely trying to decide whether the State 
court applied the correct constitutional standard in 
correcting what it thought was a correct federal 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

constitutional error?

 MR. SCODRO:  I don't, Your Honor.  I think 

the Federal question, if there is one presented, is 
whether or not there is a Federal due-process violation.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  And if there is none 

there, we don't have jurisdiction to answer and give an 
advisory opinion on how the Illinois Supreme Court 
should run its shop.

 MR. SCODRO:  That is correct.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  So the Illinois Supreme 

Court can happily go along blaming everything on us, so 
when it stands for reelection, it can say, well, we are 
just applying Federal law.

 MR. SCODRO:  Your Honor, I think in this 

case what the Illinois Supreme Court did is they 
concluded --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I know, but that's the 

consequence of your answer to that question.  It seems 
to me there is much to be said for the disposition that 
where a State court even in resolving a State-law 
question uses a Federal principle, adverts specifically 
to Federal law and cites Federal cases, it would cover 
you.

 MR. SCODRO:  Your Honor, let me be clear. 

What they did here is they had assumed the Federal 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

constitutional violation because they recognized that 
there was no State entitlement to a new trial under 
these circumstances.  So they then said, well --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  You -- they did make that 
assumption, but you think the assumption is wrong.  And 
if we think the assumption is wrong, you would agree 
with Justice Scalia that we can go ahead and say, well, 
you are running for reelection, so we are going to 
correct your errors on Federal law.

 MR. SCODRO:  I would say, Your Honor, I 
think that if the Court were to conclude there is no 
due-process violation, it would be an artificial 
exercise to then embark on an analysis of a -- harmless 
errors.

 This Court has said time and again that 

there is a close link between the alleged due-process or 
Sixth Amendment violation and the manner in which the 
due process -- the harmless-error analysis is conducted.
 In Gonzales/Lopez that was the gist of much 

of the debate between the majority of the --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I would certainly agree 

that if the only reason the Illinois Supreme Court used 
the Federal harmless-error rule was because it was 
assuming a Federal constitutional violation, once we 
reject that assumption, the whole thing drops out.  But 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

is that entirely clear from the opinion?

 MR. SCODRO:  I --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is it clear that the 

Illinois Supreme Court wouldn't have used the same test 
under simply Illinois law?

 MR. SCODRO:  Well, two points, Your Honor. 
First, in context with the briefs which independently 
sought both State and Federal remand and page 171 of the 
joint appendix where the court makes clear that we are 
simply not going to resolve the question of whether 
there is a Federal due-process violation, I think in 
context it does become clear what the court has done 
here is it certainly concluded there is not a State 
right.

 So it proceeded to say, well, what if there 

is a Federal due-process entitlement?  If that is the 
case, let's proceed and decide, well, it's harmless 
anyway.  We don't need to then reverse this conviction.
 Now, I will say that if the Court harbors 
concerns -- if the Court were to conclude there is no 
due-process violation here, but harbors concerns that 
the Illinois Supreme Court feels itself duty bound to 
follow this Court's jurisprudence on the question of 
harmlessness, then at that point the Court could simply 
make a due-process ruling and remand to allow the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Illinois Supreme Court to make clear what I think is 
already clear -- but to make crystal clear that they 
would apply a -- a harmless-error standard to this sort 
-- this sort of declaration.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  The problem is the -- the 

only reason the Illinois Supreme Court found:  That 
there was no error of constitutional dimension, meaning 
Federal constitutional dimension.  The only reason it --
it found that is because it found that the error was 
harmless beyond a reasonable doubt.

 MR. SCODRO:  Your Honor, I think that what 

they have done is they just put the statement --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  It is the cart before the 

horse.

 MR. SCODRO:  They have run the analysis, and 

what they have done, Your Honor, is said, look, any 
error here of constitutional dimension would be 
harmless.  Therefore, we inform the reader on page 171 
we simply haven't reached the question.  Please don't 
read the foregoing analysis to suggest that we have made 
a prior conclusion that there is indeed a due-process 
violation here.

 Indeed, the court suggests there probably 

isn't by early arguments that you are pointing out that 
this Court has long held since -- since Hilt in 1919 has 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

long held that there is no due-process entitlement to a 
peremptory challenge.  So I think in context it is quite 
clear that what the Court has done is to say, there is 
nothing in here for you under Illinois law.  Under 
Federal law, even if there were a due-process violation, 
it is simply not -- it is simply harmless error.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Then -- then you would 

have no objection to a remand that says, Illinois 
Supreme Court, you can't blame it on Federal law.  It's 
up to you as a matter of State law.  And now answer the 
question that you didn't answer; that is, what is the 
consequence under State law of an erroneous denial of a 
peremptory?  You would have no objection to such a 
remand?

 MR. SCODRO:  Your Honor, we would have no 

objection to that procedure, but I would caution that it 
seems unnecessary in light of the fact that the parties 
so sought relief under both State and Federal law and 
the fact that the supreme court -- the Illinois Supreme 
Court concludes it doesn't need to reach -- the way it 
analyzes the -- the constitutional question.

 I think that -- and this underlying 

assumption that judges understand, I think it's fair to 
assume that the Illinois justices understood they could 
go further as a matter of State law than Federal, but 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

not -- they couldn't provide fewer protections.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  For the reasons that have 

been discussed, it may be that we won't get to the 
merits of the Petitioner's argument, but assuming we do, 
the Petitioner talks about the -- I don't have -- the 
"unlawfully constituted jury."  Is -- is -- what is the 
extinction distinction between the hypothetical case of 
the juror who isn't a resident of the county and the 
State says you have to be a resident of the county --
what is the distinction between that and, say, a 
non-Article III judge sitting on a court of appeals 
panel?  Why is one structural and the other not?

 MR. SCODRO:  Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And this would -- this 

would be a little different than the juror who might be 
biased or might not be biased, because this goes to a 
hard qualification.  It's just a hypothetical in the 
case, but it's a -- it's a linchpin to the Petitioner's 
argument.

 MR. SCODRO:  I should begin by saying that 

the Gomez and Wingo and Nguyen decisions and others they 
cite in that line for the non-Article III judge 
proposition are themselves not due process decisions, 
but are conclusions as a matter of State -- of Federal 
law, rather, the idea being that Congress simply hadn't 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

delegated the authority properly in those cases.  They 
are not due process cases.

 But if one were to assume that those would 

also be due process violations, to have a non-Article II 
judge sit, I would distinguish those cases at that point 
hypothetically by saying there is a profound, profound 
difference between someone who lacks any and all mantle 
of state authority, on the one hand, and a juror who is 
properly sworn and who satisfies all the statutory 
requirements for sitting as a matter of Illinois law.

 And I should note, in the reply brief 

there's a point at which they contend --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well -- but the 

hypothetical is it doesn't -- the juror doesn't satisfy 
the requirement because he or she is from the wrong 
county.

 MR. SCODRO:  Again, Your Honor, the 

fundamental -- the lodestar analysis here in the due 
process appeal -- in Buford, the Court said it did not 
define it with precision, but it has always been 
fundamental fairness, a community sense of fair play and 
decency.

 It seems to me that, as you move into a 

judge with absolutely no mantle of State authority or --
and -- whatsoever, versus a juror who is properly sworn, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

properly instructed, but who nevertheless sits from a 
different neighboring jurisdiction -- and I should note 
that in Cook County there are three jury jurisdictions, 
so the errors could be legion just within Cook County in 
terms of being from the wrong part of the county.  It 
seems to me that that sort of error simply doesn't come 
anywhere close to the fundamental fairness --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well -- but how do 
you -- there is no way to tell.  I mean, presumably the 
State has a reason for restricting the jury pool to the 
neighborhood, and that type of limitation does go back 
to Blackstone, the vicinage of the crime.  So -- and the 
there's no way to tell.  There's no way to tell whether 
the juror from DuPage County is going to have a 
different view of a different perspective or affected it 
in a -- or that it affected the verdict in a particular 
case.

 MR. SCODRO:  This is true, Your Honor, but 
in those contexts, the very State law that has created 
those divisions, for whatever reason they have seen fit 
to do so, is the proper authority to conclude whether or 
not the error is so profound by having that person sit 
that it ought not be a violation of due process -- that 
it ought to be a void judgment.  That's how these 
Federal cases, Gomez and others --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE BREYER:  Did -- that's exactly what 
I can't figure out.  I'm trying -- forget due process. 
All right?  Keep that out of your mind.  We have 
approximately 50 State jurisdictions, the District of 
Columbia, and a bunch of Federal jurisdictions.  All 
right?  In those jurisdictions, to your knowledge -- you 
may not know this, you may not have looked it up -- but 
what happens in the situation where a juror -- where a 
juror should have been excused?  I guess there's a new 
trial.  The juror should have been excused, but wasn't. 
I guess there's a new trial normally; is that right?

 MR. SCODRO:  If the juror is biased, yes, 

but not if the juror is unbiased --

JUSTICE BREYER:  If the juror is biased. 

Yes.  Okay.

 Now suppose it's the defendant who wanted 
the juror and he was wrongly excused.  All right?  So 
that's what the appeals court holds.  What's the rule? 
Again, do they go back and look and see if it's biased? 
If the juror -- if the defendant didn't get the juror he 
wanted, somebody else took his place, do they look to 
see if that person was biased?  And if not, say, too 
bad, defendant, you may have been right, but you lost 
the jury that you want, no remedy?  What happens?

 MR. SCODRO:  It's my understanding -- I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

don't believe -- I don't have cases to cite on that --
but I don't believe there would be a remedy because this 
Court has said time and again that the preemptory right 
and those surrounding it do not create a right to any 
particular jury.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  So, at least in the case of 

where he failed to get a preemptory, whether it's 
Federal or whether it's State, the Federal law and most 
State law is:  You lost your right to a preemptory, one 
of them.  You should have had it, but you are out of 
luck, if -- if the juror who replaced the replacement, 
the juror who was there, you know, who otherwise 
wouldn't have been is a fair juror.

 MR. SCODRO:  Your Honor, I thought you were 
asking what happens if a particular juror the defendant 
wanted did not sit, and under those circumstances, I 
would say that because this Court has held --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, what about the last 

hypothetical?

 MR. SCODRO:  If you question -- that 

indicates really the split in this case, Your Honor, and 
the indirect split that was -- all of which was laid out 
in the cert petition.  There is -- there is 
disagreement, but we would note that much of the 
disagreement -- some of it -- is true Martinez-Salazar, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

footnote 4 with its remarks about Swain.  Some of it is 
Federal, and therefore you don't have the same concern 
about a threshold due process violation.

 I will say, to answer your original question 
as well about jurors who should not have sat but are not 
deemed biased, Illinois certainly has a history of cases 
to that effect, and the court -- the Illinois court has 
handled them as a matter of Illinois law.  The case in 
1986, an alien sat, and the court concluded there was no 
timely objection that was part of this analysis, but it 
certainly was not a "nullity," in the court's words, 
under those circumstances.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  What was that case?
 MR. SCODRO:  This is not cited in the 

briefs, so I'm only citing it in response to a question. 
It's a case called Chase from the Illinois Supreme Court 
--

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Oh, Illinois --
MR. SCODRO:  -- in 1886.  And it's a case in 

which an alien sat on the jury, and there was, I 
believe, as part of the court's analysis a failure to 
make a contemporaneous objection, but they said it was 
not a "nullity," to use the court's words, to seat this 
improper juror and, again, made as a determination of 
Illinois law, just as the question here as to what 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

remedy should be in effect is purely a question of 
Illinois law.

 Again, they have simply failed to establish 
a due process violation.  This Court has said time and 
again there is no due process entitlement to peremptory 
challenges.  Much of what we accept as given these days 
depends, hinges, upon that presumption, including the 
Baston line, as the concurrence in Miller-El pointed out 
in 2005, numerous restrictions on peremptories that have 
been upheld since the 19th century, which are laid out 
in the government's brief.  And then, indeed, the 
remarkable variety amongst States, which has been 
touched upon today, where States -- State by State --
provide very different numbers of peremptory challenges, 
and they provide very different limits thereon as well.
 JUSTICE ALITO:  If the judge who sat on a 
State trial was not authorized under State law to hear 
that particular matter, would that be a due process 
violation?

 MR. SCODRO:  I think the answer to that is 

no, Your Honor.  And indeed, as we point out in our 
brief, Cook County has several substantive divisions, so 
that, for example, a criminal law division judge is not 
authorized to sit on a family law matter, for example. 
And yet Illinois law has made clear that if there's an 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

error, if you go to the wrong court and that is unlikely 
to happen in the scenario I put forth, but it could 
easily happen between law and chancery for example, and 
does indeed happen.  If that were be the case, the --
any error in going to the wrong court and having the 
wrong court resolve your issue does not void the 
judgment as a matter of law.  And I certainly don't 
think that would implicate due process concerns.

 If the Court has no further questions, we 

would ask that you affirm the judgment below.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Roberts?
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS

 ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,

 AS AMICUS CURIAE,

 SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT

 MR. ROBERTS:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 Federal law does not require automatic 

reversal of a conviction because the denial of a 
peremptory challenge at most violated only his State law 
rights.  And even if his Federal constitutional rights 
had been violated, harmless error review would apply. 
The Constitution does not give criminal defendants the 
right to peremptory challenges; therefore, a -- the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

right of a State defendant like Petitioner to exercise 
peremptory challenges derives entirely from State law, 
and when erroneous denial of a preemptory challenge 
deprives him only of State law right, and when the State 
law rights alone have been violated, State law not 
federal law dictates whether harmless error review 
applies.  The violation of a State law right doesn't 
rise to a due process -- federal due process violation 
unless it deprives the defendant of a fair trial.

 And this Court has repeatedly held 
that States can withhold preemptory challenges entirely 
without impairing the right to an impartial jury or a 
fair trial.  It, therefore, follows that the erroneous 
denial of a single preemptory challenge does not render 
a trial fundamentally unfair.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  What if it's not a single 
challenge.  What if, let's say, each side has six, and 
the trial judge just arbitrarily refuses to allow a 
defendant to exercise any preemptory challenge, but the 
jury -- the jury is ultimately selected, there is no 
reason to think it's not a fair jury?

 MR. ROBERTS:  We'd still thing that that 
would not be a federal constitutional violation, and 
even if it were some kind of a federal violation, that 
it would be subject to review for harmlessness.  If the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

trial court could violate due process, if its actions so 
skewed the balance of power over the selection of the 
jury in favor of the government that it resulted in a 
fundamentally unfair trial, but even the denial of 
multiple preemptory challenges wouldn't rise to that 
level.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Suppose the Illinois had a 

statute that the prosecution gets 10 peremptories and 
the defendants get one, would that raise a federal 
question?

 MR. ROBERTS:  The question there would be 
whether that so skewed -- the test that I said before. 
I think the question would be that that's so skewed 
about --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Isn't the answer pretty 

clear that that would be unfair.

 MR. ROBERTS:  I don't -- I don't think that 
the answer is clear at all.  The State might rationally 
conclude that because the government has to prove its 
case beyond a reasonable doubt, because it has to 
convince the jurors unanimously to rule in its favor and 
because it has no right to appeal an unfavorable 
determination by the jury, that the prosecution should 
be entitled to more preemptory challenges.  Of course, 
this case doesn't --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I will use that as an 

examination question but let's hope it doesn't come up.

 MR. ROBERTS:  It's unlikely to, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But what about the --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  The reason it's unlikely 

is it is so clearly unconstitutional.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, we don't think it's 

unconstitutional at all, Your Honor, but it is contrary 
to what the common practice and the way things have been 
approached in both the federal and State court.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Roberts, if you do 

get to harmless error, how do you deal with the question 
that was raised by the Chief Justice, that is, there is 
no way in the world that you can tell whether this was 
harmless or not?  You would have to imagine another 
juror being on the panel, that juror could have swung 
the case, could have had no influence, there is just no 
way of knowing what would happen.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, I think that rests on 

the mistaken premise that harmless error now just turns 
on the predilections of the particular decisionmaker or 
on speculation about what one particular juror would 
have done differently than another.  In fact, harmless 
error -- the harmless error inquiry looks at the 
hypothetical objective rational juror.  And so, that's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

what you look at and the difference between --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, but maybe --
maybe you have an -- you know, the irrational juror. 
You know, the holdout is not going to convict for any 
reason.

 MR. ROBERTS:  But -- but that is not an 

appropriate part of -- of a harmless error analysis just 
like the fact that the jury might engage in 
nullification is an appropriate part of the harmless 
element.

 If -- in Strickland, which is the best case, 

I think, to explain how that is irrelevant to the 
inquiry, even though it's part of the constitutional 
there -- analysis there, the Court very clearly explains 
that you don't look at the particular decisionmaker, you 
don't speculate about nullification and about arbitrary 
action and the like, it sort of transferable over. 
That's just not an appropriate part -- analysis.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, even assuming 
your premise, isn't it pretty difficult to know what a 
rational juror would have done?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, we think that the 

correct inquiry in this circumstance, given the nature 
of the right, is to ask whether the error resulted in 
the seating of a juror that was not impartial.  And then 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

you look at the record in the case, the voir dire 
record, and make that determination, and the government 
bears the -- bears the burden of proof.

 So we don't think that that would be 

difficult to do, Your Honor.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But that is almost the 
same, at least in some states, as getting a new trial 
anyway.  If we find out after the fact that the jury was 
biased, and in some States that's a reason for a new 
trial in the discretion of the trial court, anyway.

 MR. ROBERTS:  That -- that -- that could be, 

but --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  The point is you are not 

giving much substance to the rule.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, I think we are 

respecting its fundamental -- its fundamental purpose, 
Your Honor, which is to assist to help achieve the goal 
of selecting an impartial juror.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What is the law there? 

That's what I am trying to get at.  I mean, my initial 
instinct would be that if a defendant doesn't get the 
jury that the law entitles him to, that's an error.  And 
you normally would think it was harmful, because you 
can't say, in honesty, it was harmless, it's the jury 
that's supposed to decide.  I suspect it would work out 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that way.  I have never looked into it. How has it 
worked out?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Generally for errors like the 

error you described before, where the judge 
erroneously -- mistakenly excuses a juror in the belief 
that the juror is disqualified for cause, where the 
judge mistakenly substitutes a qualified alternate for 
one of the jurors, or the judge places one alternate on 
the jury instead of another, the courts have generally 
looked at that for harmlessness and has not required 
automatic reversal.

 Indeed, even in the case of jurors that 

don't satisfy --

JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  So in other 
words, they have often said you don't get a new trial?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.
 MR. ROBERTS:  Yes.  And even in the case of 
jurors that don't meet the statutory requirements in the 
federal courts of appeals have held that unless a biased 
juror sits, a new trial is not required.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But don't some of those 
courts, rather than focusing on the qualifications of 
the particular juror, look to the -- how close the case 
was? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. ROBERTS:  The harmless error analysis, 
there are sort of a lot of different scenarios of types 
of violations, and the standard that they use is not 
clear in all of them.  In the ones that -- the cases 
that I found that involve the seating of jurors that 
don't meet the federal statutory requirements, usually 
they involve felons that didn't reveal that they were 
felons, the courts have looked to the biased juror 
standard.

 Some courts have done that, others have 

looked to whether it affects the verdict.  They haven't 
been exactly clear how you determine that, but --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That's because there 

is no way to tell.

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, I -- I think that --
that even if you had a standard that said to look to 
whether there was an effect on the verdict, you can tell 
precisely the way the Illinois Supreme Court applied 
Neder here, if no rational jury could have acquitted, 
then you know the substitution of one rational, 
impartial juror for another didn't have an effect on the 
outcome.  And that doesn't violate the Sixth Amendment 
to do that, Your Honor, because the underlying right --
the underlying error doesn't violate the Sixth 
Amendment. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But a jury is a 
fundamental protection of individual liberty, and in 
your analysis you are having a judge decide what the 
jury would --

MR. ROBERTS:  No, Your Honor.  As 

Justice Ginsburg pointed out before, the Petitioner here 
got a determination of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt 
on every element of the offense from a fair and 
impartial jury that was properly instructed.  So we are 
not having a judge substitute that at all.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The judge is making 

a determination that a juror that should have been 
sitting would act like the juror who was sitting 
instead.

 MR. ROBERTS:  That is true.  But the Sixth 
Amendment doesn't give the defendant the right to any 
particular jury, it doesn't give the defendant the right 
to a jury that has been selected in compliance with 
every jot and frivolous State law.  And therefore, if 
the underlying error, as the underlying error here where 
you get a denial of preemptory, where a juror is seated 
that even though that violated state law, assumably 
here, that -- that that doesn't amount to a Sixth 
Amendment violation.

 And if the defendant got his Sixth Amendment 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

rights at trial, then the way you conduct harmless error 
review can't violate his Sixth Amendment rights.  He 
already got them.  And so it can be done and it doesn't 
violate the Sixth Amendment.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  There are any number of 

alternatives that we can adopt in ruling for your 
position.  If we were to rule for your position, what do 
you think is the most straightforward rationale?

 MR. ROBERTS:  Well, I -- we would obviously 
like to have sort of alternative rulings that do both, 
but I think the most logical way to approach the case is 
to decide whether there was a violation of the 
Constitution here, and because there wasn't one, to say 
that State law governs the harmless error analysis.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Leven, you have two minutes remaining.
 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES K. LEVEN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. LEVEN:  Your Honor, the Hicks v. 

Oklahoma case is a very important case as far as the due 
process right to a unlawful adjudicator, because there 
we had an unlawful sentencer.  So, I would ask that the 
Court consider that, that's a State case involving an 
unlawful adjudicator.  So we do have a due process 
violation under that case. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

As to the Sixth Amendment issue, the 

Illinois Supreme Court did act inconsistently with the 
Sixth Amendment as far as its manner of conducting 
harmless error review, because harmless error review is 
impossible to conduct in this situation, because in 
order to do that, we would have to examine what the 
particular jury would have done had it not been for the 
error; and the particular jury in this case must be out, 
because there the particular jury, the panel as a whole, 
is illegally constituted, and the -- and it's impossible 
to conduct your harmless error analysis.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Why is that any harder than 
harmless error analysis that is conducted all the time? 
For example evidence is erroneously excluded from the 
trial, and you ask was that a harmless error?  But you 
have to -- there has to be speculation about how this 
jury would have received the additional evidence.  What 
-- what's the difference?

 MR. LEVEN:  Because in that situation, we 

are looking at what the particular jury, how a 
particular jury in that case would have resolved the 
matter had the erroneously admitted evidence not been 
admitted.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  But the court has no -- has 

no inside information about the dynamics of that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

particular jury.  It's just -- it's deciding what a 
rational jury would do, what a -- what a standard jury 
would do.

 MR. LEVEN:  Whether that particular jury 

would have reached the same verdict, which we can't do 
in this case.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  No.  But how does the Court 
know anything particular about the jury when it conducts 
that harmless error analysis?  It doesn't.

 MR. LEVEN:  It probably could look at the 

record as a whole to determine whether or not the -- the 
particular jury that rendered the verdict would have 
done the same thing had the erroneously admitted 
evidence not -- not been -- not been introduced.

 And in this case, we have a very different 

situation.  We have an illegal adjudicator, and we can't 
determine whether that adjudicator would have resolved 
the case differently had it not been -- it's impossible 
to assess because of the -- the particular adjudicator 
that resolved this case, in the present case, was 
illegally composed.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 12:05 p.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

abolish 25:10 
above-entitled 

1:11 54:25 
absent 22:11 

23:9 

absolutely 28:15 

28:21 37:24 

accept 42:6 
access 20:7 
achieve 48:17 
acquitted 50:19 
act 14:11 29:19 

51:13 53:2 
acting 16:9 
action 47:17 
actions 16:11 

45:1 

actual 22:6,18 

23:7,11,12 

additional 53:17 
adjudicator 

3:18 5:19,20 
6:10 8:10,24 
12:23 14:25 
15:3 17:16 
20:17,23 21:5 
52:21,24 54:16 
54:17,19 
administer 

administrator 

11:16 

9:12 

admitted 53:22 

53:23 54:13 

adopt 52:6 
adopted 11:20 
adopting 11:21 
adopts 23:4 
advent 10:22 
adverts 31:21 
advisory 31:7 
affirm 43:10 
affirming 16:23 
age 6:16,19 7:2 
agree 26:5 27:20 

32:6,21 

ahead 32:7 
Alabama 10:10 
alien 41:9,20 
ALITO 23:13 
42:16 44:16 
53:12,24 54:7 

Alito's 24:17 
alleged 32:16 
allow 11:25 

24:21 33:25 
44:18 

allowed 12:4 
allowing 16:8 

25:13 

answering 14:3 

14:9 

anyway 33:18 

48:8,10 

11:15 37:19 
45:22 

appeals 30:9 
36:11 39:18 
49:20 

alternate 49:7,8  appear 7:13 
alternative 

20:24 

52:10 

alternatives 

52:6 

Amendment 

APPEARAN... 

appellate 8:1 

1:14 

22:6 

32:17 50:22,25  appendix 33:9 
applied 15:14 
51:16,24,25 
17:2 18:21 
52:2,4 53:1,3 
amicus 1:21 2:8 
27:1 30:24 
50:18 

43:15 

applies 44:7 

18:15 19:25 
20:11,18 26:9 
26:15 28:24 
34:3 43:23 

amount 51:23 
amounted 13:14  apply 4:4 18:14 
analysis 10:22 
18:13,15 19:5 
27:9,18,19 
32:13,18 34:15 
34:20 37:18 
41:10,21 47:7 
47:14,18 50:1 
51:3 52:14 
53:11,13 54:9 

applying 18:11 
26:13 31:13 

approach 52:11 
approached 

46:10 

analytic 19:6,12  appropriate 
47:7,9,18 

19:18 

analyze 22:10 
analyzed 28:14 
analyzes 35:21 
analyzing 11:12 

approximately 

39:4 

arbitrarily 

44:18 

answer 6:5 

22:15 

arbitrary 47:16 
argue 15:14 
13:23 14:15 
18:5 21:11 
27:14,16 29:12  argued 19:20 
20:5 24:22 
30:2,17 31:6 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

31:18 35:10,11  arguing 13:12 
41:4 42:20 
45:15,18 

13:15 

apologize 24:7 
appeal 11:13,14  arguments 7:20  avoiding 6:25
a.m 1:13 3:2 

34:24 

27:4

argument 1:12 
2:2,10 3:4,6 
4:16,22 5:17 
13:5 15:11 
25:23 36:4,19 
43:13 52:17 

array 12:18
artificial 32:12
aside 18:10
asked 23:25
29:23,24

asking 8:7 14:3 

19:11 28:12
29:2,23 30:5,6 
40:15

assess 54:19
assessing 26:7
assist 48:17
Assistant 1:19
assumably

assume 35:24

51:22

37:3

assumed 31:25
assuming 20:14

32:24 36:4
47:19

assumption 27:8

32:5,5,6,25
35:23

attempt 22:25
authored 10:13
authority 3:13
4:11 8:10,19
12:8 20:10,12
23:18 24:23,25
25:3,5 29:17 
37:1,8,24
38:21

authorized

24:15 42:17,24
automatic 10:20

15:13 19:24

20:7,11 26:18 
26:19,21,25
43:19 49:11
automatically

3:15 14:6
18:23 29:9

automatic-rev... 

B

B 7:8
back 13:10 15:2 

28:20 30:19
38:11 39:19

bad 12:20 39:23 
balance 45:2
basic 8:23,24
basis 9:2,5 11:5 

12:17 16:22
19:5 20:6
Baston 42:8
Batson 23:15
24:3,9 25:15 

bears 48:3,3
began 7:2
behalf 1:15,18

1:21 2:4,6,8,12
3:7 25:24
43:14 52:18

belief 49:5
believe 26:24

30:14,16 40:1 
40:2 41:21
believed 27:3
best 47:11
better 8:13
beyond 34:10
45:20 51:7

bias 4:9,14 9:8 
biased 3:22 9:4 
9:5 36:16,16
39:12,14,19,22
41:6 48:9
49:20 50:8

big 22:4

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

54:21 

49:24 52:11,20  Chief 3:3,8 21:9 
52:20,23,25 
53:8,21 54:6 
54:15,18,20,20 
54:23,24 

4:1 9:2 

21:25 25:21,25  conceded 3:25 
27:14 38:8 
43:11,17 46:13  concern 41:2 
47:2,19 50:13 
51:1,11 52:15 
54:22 

concerns 33:20 

concerned 17:6 

17:21 

cases 8:4 12:1 

29:15,17 31:22 
37:1,2,5 38:25 
40:1 41:6 50:4 

chose 26:14 
circumstance 

47:23 

category 3:23 
cause 4:1 7:9 9:6  circumstances 
27:7,21 32:3 
40:16 41:12 

9:18 49:6 

5:6,6,8 6:12 
7:7 11:5,5,14 
13:4,5 17:4 
18:12,20 19:3 
19:23 20:3,6 
21:6 25:1 26:6 
30:22,24 31:1 
32:1,24 34:7,8 
34:17 35:21 
43:22 44:23 
47:13 

contemporane... 

41:22 

contend 37:12 
context 13:13 
33:7,12 35:2 
contexts 38:19 
contrary 46:8 
contributed 

23:6 

convict 47:4 
conviction 3:14 

16:23 33:18 
43:20 

concluded 31:16  contacts 9:9 

33:21 43:8 

conclude 29:20 

32:11 33:20 
38:21 45:19 

33:13 41:9 

concludes 35:20 
conclusion 

34:21 

conclusions 

36:24 

concurrence 

42:8 

condition 30:21 
conduct 52:1 

53:5,11 

conducted 32:18 

cite 27:24 36:22 

cited 29:14,16 

40:1 

41:14 

cites 31:22 
citing 10:23,24 
11:3,10 41:15 
citizenship 6:16 
claim 4:9 5:20 

12:23 14:4 
27:11 

Blackstone 

38:12 

blame 35:9 
blaming 31:11 
bottomed 20:16 
bound 33:22 
Brack 28:24 
Breyer 5:22 7:2 
7:16 8:12 28:4 
28:7,11 29:1 
29:12,21 30:1 
30:5,15,17 
39:1,14 40:6 
40:18 48:19 
49:14,17 

Breyer's 6:4,14 
bribe 4:3 
brief 7:12 29:16 
37:11 42:11,22 

briefs 26:16 
33:7 41:15 
Buford 37:19 
bunch 39:5 
burden 21:19 

caution 35:16 
century 42:10 
cert 40:23 
certain 7:23 
certainly 27:1 
32:21 33:13 
41:6,11 43:7 

certiorari 30:21 
challenge 3:11 
3:12 4:7 5:7 
9:3,18,21,25 
10:2,10,25 
11:6 12:13,24 
13:6,18 15:18 
16:2,6 17:18 
21:13,15 22:2 
24:21 25:4,5,6 
35:2 43:21 
44:3,14,17,19 
challengeable 

9:18 

48:3 

53:13 

claims 27:11 
clause 21:8 
clear 29:1,2,9,13  conducts 54:8 

conducting 53:3  convince 45:21 
convinced 30:22 
31:24 33:1,3,9  Congress 36:25  Cook 9:9 20:19 
21:1,18 22:4 
33:12 34:1,2,2 
38:3,4 42:22 
35:3 42:25 
correct 12:23 
45:16,18 50:4 
15:23 16:12 
50:12 
18:2,13 20:12 
30:24,25 31:9 
32:9 47:23 

consequence 
26:7 31:18 
35:12 

clearly 15:20 
46:6 47:14 

20:4 52:23 
considerable 

close 32:16 38:7 

consider 19:22 

challenges 11:22 

C 
C 2:1 3:1 
called 41:16 
capacity 16:9 
care 26:3 
cart 34:13 
case 3:4 4:3,5 
8:13,16,17 
10:13 11:4,11 
14:1 22:24 
23:2,11,22,24 
24:1,10,14 
25:17 26:3 
27:23 29:19 
31:15 33:17 
36:7,18 38:17 
40:6,21 41:8 
41:13,16,19 
8:4,16 18:9 
43:4 45:20,25 
23:14 30:12 
46:17 47:11 
43:24 52:13 
48:1 49:12,18  Chicago 1:15,17  composed 22:13  constitutional 

12:4,9,20 
13:21,22 14:1 
15:4 23:16 
25:11,18 42:6 
42:14 43:25 
44:2,11 45:5 
45:24 

chancery 43:3 
changed 13:22 
Chapman 21:22  compliance 

4:13,17 5:18 
5:24 36:6 
53:10 

Columbia 39:5 
come 22:21 38:6 

consistent 13:8 
consistently 
11:16 14:11 

components 5:2 

correcting 30:25 
constituted 4:12  correctly 13:25 

counsel 23:20 
24:16 25:21 
43:11 52:15 
54:22 

14:8 28:15 
correctness 

constitution 6:2 

corrected 17:14 

counsel's 9:15 

common 7:18 

Chase 41:16 

community 

17:23 

10:14 

37:21 

46:2 

46:9 

10:15 

49:24 

51:18 

28:24 

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

43:24 45:9 
defense 7:19 

9:15 12:18,24 
24:16 29:7 
define 37:20 
definitely 21:6 
delegated 37:1 
delicate 6:17 
Delores 3:11 
denial 3:12 

21:12 35:12 
43:20 44:3,14 
45:4 51:21 
denied 4:24 

dimension 34:7 

34:8,17 

dire 8:20 48:1 
directed 22:25 
disagreed 15:12 
disagreement 

40:24,25 

due-process 
26:2,20,23

27:12 31:4

32:12,16 33:11 
33:16,21,25 
34:21 35:1,5 
Dupage 20:20 

disagrees 15:10 
disallow 25:15 
discretion 48:10  duty 33:22 
discrimination 

21:17 22:3 
38:14 

dynamics 53:25 

23:19 24:5,10  D.C 1:8,21 
24:13 

discriminatory 

16:15 

23:16 24:20 
denying 4:7 16:1  discussed 7:12 
Department 

7:14 36:3 

country 11:22 
county 6:6,8 9:9 
20:19,20 21:1

21:2,17,18

22:4,4 36:8,9 
37:16 38:3,4,5 
38:14 42:22 

course 19:12,13 

20:13 28:22 
45:24 

court 1:1,12 3:9 

court's 16:22 
18:21 33:23 
41:11,21,23 

cover 31:22 
create 10:2 
11:19 40:4 
created 11:15 
25:18 38:19 
crime 38:12 
criminal 5:12 
13:13 42:23 
43:24 

D 

46:12 

43:13 

43:15 

days 42:6 
deal 9:12 22:4 

30:23 33:17 
48:25 51:3 
52:12 

debate 32:20 
decency 37:22 
decide 8:10 

3:24 4:19,25 
5:4 8:1,20 9:14  critical 8:11 
11:12,13 15:10  crystal 34:2 
15:14,15,16,25  curiae 1:22 2:9 
16:1,7,13,21 
16:23 17:5,8 
17:21 18:7,18 
18:19,21,23,25
 D 1:19 2:7 3:1 
19:8,15,21,22 
20:2,7,8,9,10

20:14 22:6,14 
22:16,20,20

23:3,6 24:14 
26:1,8,17,22

27:3,8,10,17 
27:21 28:19,19 
28:21 29:17 
30:9,24 31:7

31:11,15,20 
32:11,15,22

33:4,9,12,19 
33:20,22,24

34:1,6,23,25 
35:3,9,19,20

36:11 37:19 
39:18 40:3,17 
41:7,7,9,16 
42:4 43:1,5,6,9 
43:18 44:10 
45:1 46:10 
47:14 48:10 
50:18 52:23 
53:2,24 54:7 
courts 7:9 49:9 
49:20,23 50:8 
50:10 

decided 20:15 
deciding 54:1 
decision 19:19 
decisionmaker 
46:21 47:15 
decisions 4:5 

22:21 30:11 
39:16,20,23 
40:15 44:1,9 
44:19 48:21 
51:16,17,25 

defendants 

19:22 20:4 
deemed 41:6 
defendant 21:20 

19:7 36:21,23 
declaration 34:4 
declined 18:19 

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 13:12
15:2 20:19
29:14

early 34:24
easily 43:3
effect 3:20 4:18 

4:18,19,24
5:10 6:17 
11:20 13:12
15:7 41:7 42:1 
50:17,21
elaborating

element 47:10 

16:15

51:8

embark 32:13 
engage 18:12

47:8

entirely 25:6
33:1 44:2,11

entitle 18:9
entitled 24:11 
30:11 45:24

33:16 35:1
42:5

entitles 48:22
envisions 22:6
equating 3:22

8:9,21 

equivalent

22:25

entitlement 32:2 

1:20 

dependent 4:9 
depends 42:7 
deprives 44:4,9 
derives 44:2 
described 49:4 
determination 
22:23 41:24 
45:23 48:2 
51:7,12 

determine 3:20 

18:20 21:24 
26:11,12 50:12 
54:11,17 
determined 

10:20 

determines 

20:16 

dictates 44:6 
difference 37:7 

47:1 53:18 
different 4:2 

10:23 22:8,24 
36:15 38:2,15 
38:15 42:14,15 
50:2 54:15 
differently 

46:23 54:18 
difficult 22:3 
47:20 48:5 

dismissed 4:1

disposition

disqualified 

31:19


49:6


36:10


distinction 36:7 

distinguish 37:5 
district 29:4 

39:4 

division 42:23

divisions 38:20 

42:22


doing 29:7 
doubt 10:14


34:10 45:20 
51:7


drops 32:25 
due 5:9,13,21
10:21 11:17 
13:8,14 14:7 
14:12,17,21 
19:21 21:8 
29:18,22 30:3 
32:18 36:23 
37:2,4,18
38:23 39:2 
41:3 42:4,5,18 
43:8 44:8,8
45:1 52:20,24 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

erroneous 3:12 
35:12 44:3,13 

erroneously 

49:5 53:14,22 
54:13 

11:12 42:23,24 
43:3 53:14 
excellent 28:2 
excluded 53:14 
excuse 5:3 

family 42:24 
far 16:15 17:5 
17:20 52:20 
53:3 

exercised 3:10 

30:8 39:9,10 
39:17 

excuses 7:22 
30:7 49:5 

3:23 4:13 6:12 
10:22 17:10,10 
17:13,15,22 
18:4,4,13,13 
18:15,23,24,25  excusing 8:14 
19:25 20:1 
29:5 30:10 
exercise 11:6 
21:6,10,12,12 
12:24 32:13 
21:14,24 22:5 
22:7,12,15 
44:1,19 
23:5,6,9 26:9 
26:13,15 29:5 
30:22 31:1 
34:7,9,17 35:6 
38:6,22 43:1,5 
43:23 44:6 
46:12,20,24,24 
47:7,24 48:22 
49:4 50:1,24 
51:20,20 52:1 
52:14 53:4,4,8 
53:11,13,15 
54:9 

favor 45:3,21 
error 3:18,19,20  excused 9:6 29:6  February 1:9 
federal 5:2,13 
6:2,11 7:9 8:4 
8:15 14:6,17 
15:3,13 17:3 
18:4,11,12,16 
18:22 19:3,7 
20:14,16 21:6 
26:6,8,9,13,14 
26:21,24 27:2 
27:11,18,19,19 
28:12,20 29:3 
29:3,4,10,16 
29:18 30:11,22 
30:25 31:3,4 
31:13,21,22,22 
31:25 32:9,23 
32:24 33:8,11 
33:16 34:8 
35:5,9,18,25 
36:24 38:25 
39:5 40:8,8 
41:2 43:19,22 
44:6,8,23,24 
45:9 46:10 
49:20 50:6 

existed 11:22 
explain 47:12 
explains 47:14 
explanation 

extended 27:6 
extensive 9:9 
extinction 36:7 

23:20 24:12,15 
24:16 

ESQ 1:15,17,19 

explicitly 24:25 

10:10,25 12:19 

errors 32:9,14 

38:4 49:3 

26:23 

F

2:3,5,7,11 

establish 11:4 
21:14 23:21 
24:10 42:3 
established 

23:25 

evidence 53:14 

53:17,22 54:14 

Evitts 11:11 
exactly 10:4 
13:16 39:1 
50:12 

examination 

46:2 

examine 53:6 
example 6:3 

faced 27:10
facie 23:22 24:1 

24:10 

fact 14:15 18:14 

20:8 28:15 
35:17,19 46:23 
47:8 48:8 

failed 27:13 40:7 

42:3 

failure 41:21 
fair 8:23,24 10:2 

21:18 35:23 
37:21 40:13 
44:9,13,21 
51:8 

fairness 11:17 

37:21 38:7 

federally 28:22 
feels 33:22 
felons 50:7,8 
fewer 36:1 
figure 39:2 
find 15:16 18:24 

48:8 

finding 4:9 
first 3:17 6:22 
11:24 27:12 
33:7 

fit 38:20 
five 7:23 
focusing 49:23 
follow 6:4 33:23 
follows 44:13 

10:20 41:1 

footnote 10:12 

gist 32:19 
give 19:17 31:6 
foreclose 15:11 
43:24 51:16,17 
foregoing 34:20  given 24:16 42:6 
forget 39:2 
formulation 

47:23 

10:15 

forth 7:8 8:9 

43:2 

for-cause 9:3 
found 11:13 

17:8 34:6,9,9 
50:5 

gives 11:8 20:9 
giving 7:6 48:14 
go 24:5 27:9 
31:11 32:7 
35:25 38:11 
39:19 43:1 

goal 48:17 
goes 6:17 13:10 

founding 11:23 
14:16 15:2 
four 12:10,14,20 
27:20 36:16 
framework 19:6  going 7:1 10:5 

19:18 

frivolous 51:19 
full 4:21 
fun 9:24 
fundamental 

11:1,17 37:18 
37:21 38:7 
48:16,16 51:2 
fundamentally 

44:15 45:4 
further 23:14 
24:5,8 35:25 
43:9 

G

G 3:1
gender 24:12
general 1:17,20

8:20

generally 49:3,9
generous 13:3
getting 48:7
Ginsburg 3:21

5:5 9:1,11
11:24 12:3,10
12:13,16 13:2 
13:16 22:18
35:7 46:4,11
51:6

Ginsburg's

14:10

11:3 19:19 
23:14 24:8 
27:17 28:24 
30:19 32:8 
33:10 38:14 
43:5 47:4 

Gomez 3:11,13 
5:3 8:8 9:4,8 
9:15 12:13,18 
12:25 15:5 
17:16,19 29:14 
29:15 36:21 
38:25 

Gonzales/Lopez

32:19 

good 9:20,25
16:20 24:16 

government

45:3,19 48:2 
government's

42:11 

governs 52:14 
grand 13:4 
ground 18:16 
grounds 26:18 
guard 24:5 
guess 39:9,11
guilt 22:23 51:7 
guilty 5:19 

22:21 

gunshot 9:9,13 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

H 
hand 37:8 
handled 41:8 
happen 43:2,3,4 

46:18 

happened 16:18 
happens 39:8,24 

40:15 

happily 31:11 
harbors 33:19 

hard 19:14 25:8 

33:21 

36:17 

harder 53:12 
harmful 21:24 

48:23 

harmfulness 

21:14,19 

harmless 10:22 
17:10 18:4,12 
18:15,22,25 
20:1 22:5,15 
23:5 26:9,13 
26:15 32:13 
33:17 34:10,18 
35:6 43:23 
44:6 46:12,15 
46:20,23,24 
47:7,9 48:24 
50:1 52:1,14 
53:4,4,11,13 
53:15 54:9 
harmlessness 
21:23 33:24 
44:25 49:10 

harmless-error 
27:18 32:18,23 
34:3 

hear 3:3 42:17 
heard 8:5 29:24 
held 8:12,13,20 

9:15 34:25 
35:1 40:17 
44:10 49:20 

help 10:2 48:17 
Hicks 52:19 
Hilt 34:25 

hinges 42:7 
history 41:6 
holdout 47:4 
holds 39:18 
honesty 48:24 
Honor 5:1,16 
8:18 11:11 
12:2,15 14:1 
21:21 23:24 
24:7 25:19 
27:16 28:2,6 
29:13 30:16 
31:2,14,24 
32:10 33:6 
34:11,16 35:15 
37:17 38:18 
40:14,21 42:21 
46:8 48:5,17 
50:23 51:5 
52:19 

hope 46:2 
horse 34:14 
Hospital 9:10 
hunch 21:16 

24:19 

hypothetical 

36:7,17 37:14 
40:19 46:25 
hypothetically 

37:6 

I 
idea 36:25 
II 37:4 
III 36:11,22 
Ill 1:15,18 
illegal 23:12 

54:16 

illegally 4:10,13 

4:16,17 5:18 
22:13 53:10 
54:21 

illegitimate 

22:13 

Illinois 1:6 3:4 
5:4 9:14 11:19 
11:25 15:16,24 

16:7,13 17:4,8 
17:21 18:7,17 
19:15,20,22 
20:2,8,13 
22:14 24:13 
26:8,17,22 
27:4 28:19 
31:7,10,15 
32:22 33:4,5 
33:22 34:1,6 
35:4,8,19,24 
37:10 41:6,7,8 
41:16,18,25 
42:2,25 45:7 
50:18 53:2 

imagine 46:15 
impairing 44:12 
impartial 8:22 

10:3 44:12 
47:25 48:18 
50:21 51:9 

implicate 21:7 

43:8 

implied 27:3 
important 52:20 
impossible 3:20 
21:13,23 53:5 
53:10 54:18 

improper 41:24 
improperly 4:12 

including 29:15 

5:24 

42:7 

53:2 

inconsistently 

incorrect 16:1 
independent 
3:16 26:17 

independently 

indicates 10:13 

33:7 

40:21 

indirect 40:22 
individual 51:2 
influence 46:17 
inform 34:18 
information 

53:25 

inherently 4:23 
initial 48:20 
inquiry 46:24 

47:13,23 

inside 53:25 
instance 8:14 

22:9 

instinct 48:21 
instructed 38:1 

51:9 

interpreting 

29:18 

introduced 

54:14 

intrusion 7:9 
involve 8:18,18 

50:5,7 

involved 5:9 

24:20 

involves 14:1,23 
involving 52:23 
irrational 47:3 
irrelevant 47:12 
irrespective 

4:14 

issue 5:2 16:24 
17:1 19:7 20:4 
20:10 43:6 
53:1 

J

JAMES 1:15 2:3 
2:11 3:6 52:17 

Johnson 28:16
joint 33:9
jot 51:19
judge 3:22 4:2,6 

6:1 7:22,24
22:25 23:18,19
23:24 24:11,14
24:19,22,25
25:13 29:4
30:7 36:11,22
37:5,24 42:16 
42:23 44:18
49:4,7,8 51:3 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

51:10,11

judges 35:23
judgment 3:14
4:14 22:16,17
27:6 38:24
43:7,10

jurisdiction
30:21 31:6
38:2

jurisdictions

38:3 39:4,5,6
jurisprudence

33:23

juror 3:11,19,24

4:5,10,16,23
5:3 6:7 7:17,20 
8:14 15:8,17
16:2,3,8,8
17:17 20:20,21
20:22,25 21:1 
27:5 29:5,6
30:7,8 36:8,15 
37:8,14,25
38:14 39:8,9
39:10,12,13,14
39:17,20,20
40:11,12,13,15
41:24 46:16,16
46:22,25 47:3 
47:21,25 48:18 
49:5,6,21,24
50:8,21 51:12 
51:13,21

jurors 6:20 8:18 

14:5 15:6
22:22 29:24
41:5 45:21
49:8,12,19
50:5

juror's 7:11

15:22

jury 3:13 4:10 

4:11,13,17
5:17,19,23 6:1 
6:7,15,22 7:17 
8:2,22 9:16 
10:3,7 12:21 

15:21 16:3,4 
17:16,19,21

20:18,19 22:6

22:11,12,17,19

22:19,22 23:7

23:11,12 29:7 
36:6 38:3,10 
39:24 40:5 
41:20 44:12,20 
44:20,21 45:3 
45:23 47:8 
48:8,22,24 
49:9 50:19 
51:1,4,9,17,18 
53:7,8,9,17,20

53:21 54:1,2,2 
54:4,8,12


36:2,14 37:13 
38:8 39:1,14 
40:6,18 41:13 
41:18 42:16 
43:11,17 44:16 
45:7,15 46:1,4 
46:5,11,13 
47:2,19 48:6 
48:13,19 49:14 
49:17,22 50:13 
51:1,6,11 52:5 
52:15 53:12,24 
54:7,22 

justices 35:24 
justification 

19:12 

justify 24:3 

K 1:15 2:3,11 

3:6 52:17 
Keep 39:3 
KENNEDY 6:3 
6:24 7:6 10:12 
10:17 11:2 
19:1,11,17 
27:23 28:16 
36:2,14 37:13 
41:13,18 46:1 
49:22 52:5 

K 

jury's 16:10,11 
Justice 1:20 3:3 
3:8,21 4:15 5:5 
5:10,22 6:3,4

6:14,24 7:2,6 
7:16 8:12 9:1 
9:11,20,24 
10:4,12,13,17

11:2,24 12:3 
12:10,13,16

13:2,10,16,20 
14:2,10,14,20

15:1,15 16:5 
16:17,25 17:12
 kept 3:23 
17:20 18:1,6 
19:1,11,17

20:13 21:3,4,9 
21:15,25 22:18

23:13 24:2,17 
24:17,24 25:5

25:8,12,21,25 
26:4,16 27:14

27:15,23 28:4 
28:7,11,16

29:1,12,21 
30:1,5,15,17

30:19,20 31:5 
31:10,17 32:4 
32:7,21 33:3 
34:5,13 35:7 

L 

kind 24:11,12 
24:13 44:24 
know 6:9 8:6 
10:6 21:11 
28:12,13 29:2 
29:12 30:5 
31:17 39:7 
40:12 47:3,4 
47:20 50:20 
54:8 

knowing 46:18 
knowledge 39:6 

lacked 3:13 8:19 
lacks 37:7 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

laid 40:22 42:10 
law 4:18,20,25 
5:2,2,11,13,23 
8:15,21 11:25 
14:5,16,19 
15:3,3,9,13 
16:10 17:1,4 
17:13,23 18:5 
18:12,13,14,23 
20:8,11,20,25 
22:22 24:18 
26:8,9,13,14 
26:19,24 27:4 
28:20,23 29:3 
29:10 30:11 
31:13,22 32:9 
33:5 35:4,5,9 
35:10,12,18,25 
36:25 37:10 
38:19 40:8,9 
41:8,25 42:2 
42:17,23,24,25 
43:3,7,19,21 
44:2,4,5,5,6,7 
48:19,22 51:19 
51:22 52:14 
lawful 5:3 8:10 

lawfully 3:10 
lawful-author... 

8:24 

8:21 

laws 5:25 
lawyer 29:8 30:6 
lawyers 7:19 
lead 19:6 
legion 38:4 
lesser 25:13 
let's 5:12 14:25 

30:9 33:17 
44:17 46:2 

level 19:21 20:5 

45:6 

Leven 1:15 2:3 
2:11 3:5,6,8 
4:8 5:1,8,16 
6:15 7:5,11 8:8 
8:17 9:7,14,22 

10:1,9,16,19 
11:10 12:1,7 
12:12,15,22 
13:7,17,25 
14:13,18,23 
15:12,24 16:13 
16:21 17:8,15 
17:24 18:3,19 
19:8,14,20 
20:24 21:7,21 
22:5 23:2,23 
24:7,22 25:2,7 
25:10,17 52:16 
52:17,19 53:19

54:4,10 

liberty 51:2

light 35:17 
limitation 38:11 
limits 42:15 
linchpin 36:18

line 6:8 29:15 
36:22 42:8 

link 32:16 
little 22:24


36:15 
lives 22:3

local 20:21 
lockstep 27:17

lodestar 37:18 
logical 52:11

long 11:21 27:25 

28:2 34:25

35:1 

longer 11:8

look 8:13 14:2 

19:7 23:3

34:16 39:19,21
47:1,15 48:1

49:24 50:16 
54:10


looked 39:7 49:1 

49:10 50:8,11


looking 26:8 

looks 23:4,6 

53:20

46:24

lost 39:23 40:9 

lot 50:2

lots 29:3

Lucey 11:12

luck 40:11

M

magistrate 8:19 
Magistrates 

29:22

Magistrate's

29:19 

majority 32:20 
making 15:9

51:11

manifold 7:4 
manner 32:17

53:3 

mantle 37:7,24
Martinez-Sala... 

10:19 17:11
18:22 19:10 
20:9 40:25

matter 1:11 4:2 

18:14 24:18
26:24 27:4 
28:15,23 29:1 
29:3,9,18 
35:10,25 36:24 
37:10 41:8
42:18,24 43:7 
53:22 54:25 
MATTHEW

1:19 2:7 43:13 

mean 28:3,11
38:9 48:20 
meaning 8:23

34:7

means 8:12
meant 17:5
meet 49:19 50:6 
merely 30:23 
merits 36:4
met 22:22 
MICHAEL 1:3 
1:17 2:5 25:23 
Michigan 27:25

28:1

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Miller-El 42:8 
million 7:23 
mind 39:3 
minutes 52:16 
misapplied 

15:14 16:21 
17:2 

mistake 6:1 30:7 
mistaken 46:20 
mistakenly 49:5 

49:7 

Monday 1:9 
monetary 4:3 
move 37:23 
moved 19:23 
multiple 45:5 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
narrow 3:23 

5:17 

nature 47:23 
Neder 16:22 
17:11 18:22 
19:9 20:9 
50:19 

need 9:20,25 
10:8 21:16 
33:18 35:20 
needed 17:13 
needs 17:23 
neighborhood 

38:11 

neighboring 

38:2 

never 6:21 8:5 

27:8 49:1 
nevertheless 

38:1 

new 18:11 27:7 

29:9 30:11 
32:2 39:9,11 
48:7,9 49:15 
49:21 

Nguyen 36:21 
non-Article 

36:11,22 37:4 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

non-capital 12:1  oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 
normal 23:5 
normally 23:4 
39:11 48:23 

order 12:25 24:3 

25:23 43:13 

53:6 

note 37:11 38:2 

notion 15:20 

40:24 

20:17 

nullification 

47:9,16 

nullity 41:11,23 
number 12:10 
12:14,20 52:5 
numbers 42:14 
numerous 42:9 
nurse 9:12 
O 
O 2:1 3:1 
objection 35:8 

origin 11:14 
original 41:4 
ought 38:23,24 
outcome 50:22 
overexuberant 

4:6 

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 33:8 

34:18

panel 36:12
46:16 53:9 

part 21:16 38:5 
41:10,21 47:7 
47:9,13,18 

35:13,16 41:10  participate 17:7 
41:22 

participating 

objective 46:25 
obligated 11:19  particular 5:23 

15:22 

possibility 9:8 

16:2,6,14 
17:18 21:13,15  power 45:2 
22:2 23:15 
25:11,18 35:2 
35:13 42:5,14 
43:21,25 44:2 
peremptory-c... 

precedent 8:6 
16:22 17:3 
18:21 

practice 18:11 

46:9 

25:14 

perfectly 3:25 
person 10:5,7 
17:7 18:10 
38:22 39:22 

perspective 

22:10 23:3,11 
38:15 

precisely 50:18 
precision 37:20 
predilections 

46:21 

preemptory

24:21 25:3,6 
40:3,7,9 44:3 
44:11,14,19
45:5,24 51:21 

petition 40:23 
petitioner 1:4,16  preface 7:3 

2:4,12 3:7,10 
5:3 17:17 20:5 
26:18 36:5 
44:1 51:6 
52:18 

prejudiced 7:18 

7:21 30:9 

premise 4:22 
5:14 46:20 
47:20 

13:7 

obligation 11:16 

26:11,12 

obvious 19:4 
obviously 52:9 
occur 6:20 
occurred 22:9 
offense 51:8 
oh 6:25 28:9 

41:18 

Oil 28:17 
okay 4:15 7:21 

17:5 30:18 
39:15 49:17 

6:19 

36:4,18 

phenomenon 

Petitioner's 3:14  present 54:20 
presented 31:3 
preside 8:19 
presides 21:1 
presumably

7:20 38:16 
40:5,15 42:18 
46:21,22 47:15  phrase 8:22 
49:24 51:17 
53:7,8,9,20,21  place 6:22 39:21  presumption
54:1,4,8,12,19  places 49:8 
play 37:21 
please 3:9 26:1 
34:19 43:18 

pretty 24:16 
45:15 47:20 
prima 23:22,25

pick 7:2 

38:9 

42:7 

point 13:10 22:1 

24:10 

28:20,23 33:24  principle 8:9,20 
37:5,12 42:21 
48:13 

parties 35:17 
people 9:13 
percentage 7:24 
perempt 15:17 
peremptories 
11:25 12:25 
13:4 24:6 42:9 
45:8 

52:20 
old 6:21 
once 11:14,19 

Oklahoma 12:7  peremptory 
3:11 4:7 5:7 
9:18,21,22,25 
10:2,10,25 
11:4,6,18,20 
11:21 12:4,8 
12:14,19,24 
13:6,17,21,22 
14:1 15:4,18 

ones 50:4 
opinion 15:25 
17:24 31:7 
33:1 

32:24 

pointed 21:15 

42:8 51:6 

pointing 34:24 
points 33:6 
pool 6:22 38:10 
position 13:23 
13:23 14:16 
15:13 23:23 
52:7,7 

positions 18:5 

19:5 31:21 
principles 7:8 
prior 34:21 
probably 7:23 
34:23 54:10 
problem 6:18 

13:9 34:5 

procedure 5:12 

35:16 

proceed 33:17 
proceeded 33:15 
proceeding 8:11 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

18:7,17 34:20 

reader 34:18 
really 6:23 26:4 

40:21 

remarkable 

42:12 

remarks 41:1 
remedied 5:13 

respecting 48:16 
Respondent

1:18,22 2:6,9 
25:24 43:16 
response 29:14 

14:6 

41:15 

40:2 42:1 

restricting

remedy 39:24 

removed 9:16 
removing 12:18 

reason 9:16,21 
9:25 10:5,8,11 
11:1 23:17,20 
23:25 24:4 
32:22 34:6,8 
38:10,20 44:21  render 3:14 4:11  rests 46:19 
result 3:12 
46:5 47:5 48:9 
reasonable 9:7 
34:10 45:20 
51:7 

22:11,12 23:8 
23:8 54:12 
reasoning 16:16  renders 5:18 

4:14 44:14 

38:10 

rendered 22:7,8  resulted 14:24 

restrictions 42:9 

19:12,13 20:18  repeatedly 

reasons 3:16 

5:23 29:6 36:2 

REBUTTAL 
2:10 52:17 

44:10 

replaced 40:11 
replacement 

40:11 

reply 37:11 
recall 14:7 
request 25:19 
received 53:17 
require 43:19 
recognized 32:1 
reconsideration  required 21:22 
27:5,7 49:10 
49:21 

record 48:1,2 

10:21 

reelection 31:12 

54:11 

32:8 

refuse 24:20 
refuses 44:18 
regard 20:18 
Regardless 17:2 
regulate 12:8 
regulation 25:3 
reject 32:25 
rejected 13:11 
15:20 27:11 

relied 20:9 
relief 35:18 
rely 19:9 20:8 
relying 17:10 
remainder 

25:19 

remaining 52:16 
remand 33:8,25 

35:8,14 

requirement 6:9 

21:1 37:15 
requirements 

7:4 37:10 
49:19 50:6 
requires 6:12 

29:8 

reserve 25:19 
residency 6:9 
resident 6:6,8 
21:2 36:8,9 
resolve 33:10 

43:6 

resolved 53:21 

54:17,20 

resolving 31:20 
respect 5:11 
6:15,18 9:8 
17:3,3 22:1 

respected 15:19 

16:6 

45:3 47:24 
reveal 50:7 
reversal 10:20 
15:13 18:23 
19:25 20:7,11
20:15 26:18,19
26:21,25 43:20 
49:11 

reverse 19:19 

33:18 

reversed 3:15 
review 17:10 
18:4,25 20:1 
22:6,15 23:5 
27:21 43:23 
44:6,25 52:2 
53:4,4

reviewing 22:16
reviews 23:4
right 5:3,6,6,9
5:20 7:18,25 
8:9,21,21,22
8:23,23,24
10:9 11:6,13
11:13,15,16,18
11:20 12:6,21
13:6 14:20
17:17 18:20
19:3,23 20:3 
25:6,15 29:8 
29:25 30:1
33:14 39:3,6
39:11,17,23
40:3,4,9 43:25 
44:1,4,7,12 

process 5:9,13 

5:21 6:17 
11:17 13:8,14 
14:7,12,17,21 
15:5 19:21 
21:8 24:9 
29:18,22 30:4 
32:18 36:23 
37:2,4,19 
38:23 39:2 
41:3 42:4,5,18 
43:8 44:8,8 
45:1 52:21,24 
profound 27:6 
37:6,6 38:22 
prohibits 23:14 
promised 13:9 
proof 48:3 
proper 38:21 
properly 8:2 
26:12 29:7 
37:1,9,25 38:1 
51:9 

proposition 7:7 
11:9,11 27:24 
36:23 

prosecution 

45:8,23 

prosecutors 

7:19 

protect 23:15 
protection 51:2 
protections 36:1 
prove 21:22 

45:19 

provide 13:8 
23:17 36:1 
42:14,15 
pure 26:19 
purely 42:1 
purpose 9:19 
10:1,24,24 
24:20 48:16 

purposes 23:16 
put 6:1 21:19 
34:12 43:2 
putting 3:21 

p.m 54:24 
Q

qualification
7:17 20:25
36:17

qualifications
6:16 7:12,13
22:23 49:23
qualified 3:25

4:6 49:7

question 6:4,5
6:14,25 7:3 
13:24 14:2,10
15:2 19:24
24:18 25:9
27:15,19 28:2 
29:14,23 30:6 
30:20 31:3,18
31:21 33:10,23
34:19 35:11,21
40:20 41:4,15
41:25 42:1
45:10,11,13
46:2,12

questions 20:19

27:2 43:9

quite 4:2,4 35:2 

R

R 3:1
raise 26:17 45:9 
raised 46:13
rare 6:19 7:15 
rarely 6:20
rational 46:25

47:21 50:19,20
54:2

rationale 52:8
rationally 45:18
reach 20:10 27:8 

27:11 35:20
reached 34:19

54:5

reaching 15:22
read 15:24

17:24,25 18:6 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

45:22 47:24 
49:14 50:23 
51:16,17 52:21 

rights 25:4,6 

43:22,22 44:5 
52:1,2 

rise 44:8 45:5 
Rivera 1:3 3:4 
Roberts 1:19 2:7 

3:3 21:9,25 
25:21 27:14 
38:8 43:11,12 
43:13,17 44:22 
45:11,17 46:3 
46:7,11,19 
47:2,6,19,22 
48:11,15 49:3 
49:16,18 50:1 
50:13,15 51:1 
51:5,11,15 
52:9,15 54:22 

Ross 12:7 
rule 5:4 6:10,14 

10:20 17:17 
20:15 27:5 
32:23 39:18 
45:21 48:14 
52:7 

rules 6:6 
ruling 33:25 

52:6 

rulings 52:10 
run 12:25 31:8 

34:15 

running 32:8 

S 
S 2:1 3:1 
Salazar 10:17 
sat 3:13 16:3 

41:5,9,20 
42:16 

satisfies 37:9 
satisfy 37:14 

49:13 

saying 5:11,24 
6:25 8:3 9:3 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

13:3 14:10,18 
15:7 36:20 
37:6 

says 5:25 8:1,16 

15:3,3 20:20 
24:3 30:10 
35:8 36:9 

Scalia 9:20,24 
10:4,13 21:3 
21:15 25:5,8 
25:12 26:4,16 
31:10,17 32:7 
32:21 33:3 
34:5,13 

Scalia's 27:15 

30:20 

sentencer 52:22 
separate 3:15 
serve 4:11 6:7 

6:21 

set 8:9 18:10 
setting 7:8 
seven 12:2 
shop 31:8 
show 27:12 
showing 4:9 

21:19 

15:1,15 16:5 
16:17,25 17:12 
17:20 18:1,6 
24:2 

specifically 

15:25 23:16 
31:21 

specify 19:8 
speculate 19:15 

47:16 

speculation 

side 44:17 
46:22 53:16 
simply 4:24 33:5  split 40:21,22 
33:10,24 34:19  sponte 24:23 
35:6,6 36:25 
38:6 42:3 

stage 8:11 
stake 4:3 
stand 14:14 

36:9,24 37:8 
37:24 38:10,19 
39:4 40:8,9 
42:13,13,17,17 
43:21 44:1,2,4 
44:4,5,7 45:18 
46:10 51:19,22 
52:14,23 

stated 13:23 

20:25 

statement 4:18 

15:9 16:14 
34:12 

states 1:1,12,21 

2:8 6:5 8:8 
42:12,13 43:14 
44:11 48:7,9 

State's 7:12 
State-law 26:7 

31:20 

statute 13:13 
29:19 45:8 
statutes 18:8 
statutory 37:9 

49:19 50:6 

scenario 43:2 
scenarios 50:2 
Scodro 1:17 2:5 

single 44:14,16 
sit 12:21 16:8 
37:5 38:22 
40:16 42:24 
sits 38:1 49:21 
sitting 4:17 10:7 

15:17 36:11 
37:10 51:13,13 

25:22,23,25 
26:16 27:16 
28:1,6,9,14,18 
29:11,13,25 
30:3,14,16 
situation 7:15 
31:2,9,14,24 
23:5 26:10 
32:10 33:2,6 
39:8 53:5,19 
34:11,15 35:15 
36:13,20 37:17 
54:16 
38:18 39:12,25  six 44:17 
40:14,20 41:14  Sixth 32:17 
41:19 42:20 

scope 5:17 
screening 6:17 
seat 41:23 
seated 17:16,19 

20:22 51:21 
seating 3:19 
4:23 15:8 
47:25 50:5 
see 39:19,22 
seen 38:20 
selected 44:20 

51:18 

selecting 48:18 
selection 14:5 

45:2 

sense 37:21 

50:22,24 51:15 
51:23,25 52:2 
52:4 53:1,3 

skewed 45:2,12 

45:13 

Solicitor 1:17,19 
somebody 39:21 
sorry 12:12 28:6 
sort 7:1 28:17 
34:3,4 38:6 
47:17 50:2 
52:10 

sought 33:8 

35:18 

SOUTER 4:15 
5:10 13:10,20 
14:2,14,20 

18:17 

standard 6:12 
28:17,24,25 
30:24 34:3 
50:3,9,16 54:2 

stands 11:8 

31:12 

52:8 

straightforward 

step 25:13 
STEVENS 
20:13 21:4 
24:17,24 30:19 
31:5 32:4 45:7 
45:15 46:5 
48:6,13 

state 4:18,19,20 
4:24 5:2,11,23 
5:25,25 6:13 
6:13,13 7:4,4 
7:10 8:1,15 
10:11 11:1,7 
11:15,19 12:3 
12:8,16 13:3,7 
13:13 14:4,6 
14:11,16,19,24 
15:3,9,9,12 
16:1,10 17:1 
17:13,23 18:13 
18:14 19:7 
20:25 21:22 
22:22 23:14,17  structural 3:18 
3:19,23 4:13 
24:4,9,18,18 
24:24 25:2,10 
6:12 21:10,11
25:18 26:15,19 
36:12 
27:18 28:23 
30:23 31:20 
32:2 33:8,13 
35:10,12,18,25 

sua 24:23 
subject 10:21 

17:10,18 18:4 
18:24 20:1 

strike 9:15 
12:25 24:4 

stretch 4:4 
Strickland 

47:11 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

submitted 54:23 

19:18 

44:25 

54:25 

sustainable 

Swain 10:9,15 
10:21,23,24 
11:3,8 41:1 
sweeping 7:7 
sworn 37:9,25 
swung 46:16 
system 7:10 

T 

T 2:1,1 
tainted 16:18 
take 4:25 7:11 
14:25 25:13 

taken 4:3 
takes 26:3 
talking 13:20,21 

29:21,22 
talks 36:5 
tell 38:9,13,13 

46:14 50:14,17 

term 6:10 
terms 17:15 

38:5 

terribly 22:3 
test 33:4 45:12 
Thank 25:21 
43:11 52:15 
54:22 

thereon 42:15 
thing 7:19 28:17 

32:25 44:22 
54:13 

things 46:9 
think 4:19 7:5 

7:18 10:5,6,17 
11:3,8 21:23 
22:21 23:2,13 
26:6 28:3,9,14 
28:18 30:17,20 
31:2,14 32:5,6 
32:11 33:11 
34:1,11 35:2 
35:22,23 42:20 
43:8 44:21 
45:13,17 46:7 

46:19 47:12,22 
48:4,15,23 
50:15 52:8,11 
thinking 19:15 
thinks 6:7 
thought 11:2 
14:3,3 16:17 
17:9 18:3 21:5 
30:8,25 40:14 
thousand 5:22 
three 3:15 12:4 
12:17,19 38:3 
three-step 24:9 
threshold 26:3 

41:3 

time 13:19 25:20 

32:15 40:3 
42:4 53:13 
timely 41:10 
times 7:23 
today 42:13 
touched 42:13 
tradition 11:21 

transferable 

13:18 

47:17 

trial 3:17 5:12 
8:23,24 16:1 
18:11 23:18,24
24:19,25 25:13 
27:7 29:4,9
30:12 32:2 
39:10,11 42:17 
44:9,13,15,18
45:1,4 48:7,10 
48:10 49:15,21
52:1 53:15 

trials 29:4 
trigger 26:20,25
triggers 5:20 
true 22:1,1

38:18 40:25 
51:15 

trying 26:9 
30:23 39:2 
48:20 

turns 20:21 

subset 11:7 
substance 48:14 
substantive 

42:22 

substitute 51:10 
substituted 
22:15,16 

substitutes 49:7 
substitution 

50:20 

suggest 34:20 
suggested 13:11 

13:11 27:2 

suggesting 9:2 
suggests 34:23 
supervision 7:9 
supervisory 

29:17 

supporting 1:22 

2:9 43:16 

suppose 6:7 12:3 

26:5 39:16 
45:7 

supposed 48:25 
supreme 1:1,12 

4:19,24 5:4 
9:14 15:10,16 
15:25 16:7,13 
17:5,8,21 18:7 
18:18 19:15,21 
19:22 20:2,9 
20:14 22:14 
24:14 26:17,22 
31:7,10,15 
32:22 33:4,22 
34:1,6 35:9,19 
35:19 41:16 
50:18 53:2 

sure 24:8 
surrounding 

40:4 

suspect 48:25 
suspicion 23:19 

25:14 

46:20 

two 3:18 18:5 
26:17 33:6 
52:16 

type 38:11 
types 50:2 
U

ultimate 17:20
ultimately 17:12

unanimously

44:20

45:21

unbiased 39:13
unconstitutio... 

12:5 46:6,8 

underlying 19:2 

35:17 

unqualified 9:4 
unremedied 
14:17,19,22 
unseemly 13:3 
unstated 5:14 
upheld 42:10 
use 23:15 24:6 
26:14 41:23 
46:1 50:3 
uses 31:21 
usually 50:6 

V

v 1:5 3:4 10:9 

11:11 12:7
52:19

35:22 50:23,24  valid 9:15 17:9 
51:20,20 

validity 17:6
understand 9:23  variety 42:12

understanding 

verdict 5:18

13:25 16:7 
17:22 24:8 
35:23 

39:25 

understood 

35:24 

unfair 6:23 

44:15 45:4,16 

unfavorable 

45:22 

unique 13:18 
United 1:1,12,21 

2:8 8:8 43:14 
unlawful 3:17 
4:23 5:19,20 
6:10 12:22 
14:24 15:2,8 
15:16,21,21 
16:9,10 20:17 
20:23 21:5 
27:5 52:21,22 
52:24 

varying 7:4
venerable 11:21

13:18

15:22 16:11,19
17:6,9,21
18:10,17 22:7 
22:8,11,12,19
23:1,7,8,9
38:16 50:11,17
54:5,12

versus 8:8 27:25 
28:1,16 37:25 
viability 10:14
vicinage 38:12
victims 9:9
view 38:15
violate 45:1

50:22,24 52:2 
52:4

violated 18:21

19:21,23 20:4 
43:21,23 44:5 
51:22

unlawfully 36:6 
unlawful-adju...  violates 6:2 8:4 

4:8 6:18 

unnecessary 

8:14

violation 5:11

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

2009 1:9


41:11,23 49:15  23 1:9

25 2:9


wouldn't 18:15 

5:13 6:13 8:15  words 18:6 
13:13,14 14:4

work 48:25 
14:7,16,17,19

14:21,24 18:8
 worked 49:2 
18:9 20:14,16  world 46:14 
25:15 26:2,6,7  worry 6:25

26:15,20,24

27:12 30:4 
26:11 33:4 
31:4 32:1,12 
40:13 45:5 
32:17,24 33:11  wounds 9:13 
33:21 34:22 
35:5 38:23 
41:3 42:4,19 
44:7,8,23,24 
51:24 52:12,25 

wrong 6:8 7:25 

8:2 25:16 
27:22 28:5,8 
28:22 30:10 
32:5,6 37:15 
38:5 43:1,5,6 
wrongful 3:18 

violations 7:1 

37:4 50:3 

3

3 2:4

4

4 10:20 41:1 
434 5:4 17:17 

5
5,000 7:24
50 39:4
50,000 7:24
500 7:24
52 2:12

21:12 

wrongfully 3:13 

16:3,15 

wrongly 20:22 

39:17 

X 

x 1:2,7 

void 38:24 43:6 
voided 27:6 
voir 8:19 48:1 
vote 10:5 
W 

want 10:7 30:13 

39:24 

Y

wanted 28:19 
39:16,21 40:16 
Washington 1:8  yeah 15:17 
year 7:23
1:20 
years 6:21 
young 6:20

wasn't 8:2 9:12 
11:10,19 24:12 
30:9 39:10 
52:13 

way 6:22 17:25 
18:17 35:20 
38:9,13,13 
46:9,14,18 
49:1 50:14,18 
52:1,11 
we'll 14:5 
whatsoever 

37:25 
win 11:4 
Wingo 36:21 
winnowing 15:5 
wishes 25:11 
withhold 44:11 

0

07-9995 1:5 3:4 

1

10 45:8
11:05 1:13 3:2 
12:05 54:24
171 33:8 34:18 
18 6:21
1886 41:19
19th 42:10
1919 34:25
1986 41:9
2 
2005 42:9 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

