Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

 v. 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
CARLOS JIMENEZ, 
:
                 
:
          
Petitioner 
:  No. 07-6984 
                       
: 
NATHANIEL QUARTERMAN, 
           
: 
DIRECTOR, TEXAS 
                 
: 
DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL 
          
: 
JUSTICE, CORRECTIONAL 
           
INSTITUTIONS DIVISION. 
: 
          
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 Washington, D.C.
 Tuesday, November 4, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 12:59 p.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf

 of the Petitioner. 

SEAN D. JORDAN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Austin,

 Tex.; on behalf of the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


SEAN D. JORDAN, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

26


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

51


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument next in Case 07-6984, Jimenez v. Quarterman.

 (12:59 p.m.)

 Mr. Goldstein.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may 

it please the Court:

 When the Texas courts in this case 

reinstated the Petitioner's direct appeal, the Texas 
Court of Appeals decided that appeal like it would 
decide any other case on direct review.  We filed a 
petition for discretionary review in the Texas Court of 
Criminal Appeals, which was denied, and it was 
considered like any other appeal would be.

 The question presented by this case is 

whether the final judgment that indisputably results 
from those rulings triggers the one-year statute of 
limitations to file a Federal habeas corpus application. 
The statute that governs that question is reproduced in 
the blue brief at page 1.

 Section 2244(d)(1)(A) prescribes "a 1-year 
period of limitation that shall apply to an application 
for a writ of habeas corpus by a person in custody 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

pursuant to the judgment of the State court.  The 
limitation period shall run from the latest of -- and it 
identifies four dates, the first of which is "the date 
on which the judgment became final by the conclusion of 
direct review or the expiration of time for seeking such 
review."

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And you don't think you 

need to go beyond (A) to resolve the case?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  That's right, Justice 

Kennedy.  Subsection (A) resolves this case by its plain 
terms.

 Now, the Fifth Circuit decided this case --

this issue, I'm sorry -- in 2004 in a case called 
Salinas, and it thought that the factual scenario of the 
case was more logically covered by subsection (d)(2) of 
the statute, which is on page 2 of the blue brief.  And 
that provision is the tolling provision, and it says: 
"The time during which a properly filed application for 
State post-conviction or other collateral review with 
respect to the pertinent judgment or claim is pending 
shall not be counted toward any period of limitation 
under the subsection."

 And the Fifth Circuit's view in that Salinas 
case was that the better way of looking at this is that 
when the State post-conviction court awarded relief of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

further direct review, all of that should be regarded as 
part of the post-conviction process.  But four years 
after -- three years after the Fifth Circuit decided 
Salinas, this Court decided Lawrence v. Florida, and 
Lawrence disposes of the Fifth Circuit's logic in 
Salinas, because Lawrence says that when the 
post-conviction court, here the Texas Court of Criminal 
Appeals, issues its mandate the application for 
post-conviction review is no longer pending.  And so 
there isn't any reason to believe that Congress thought 
this factual scenario was covered by the tolling 
provisions of (d)(2).

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, does your 

position depend upon the proposition that we are not 
free to consider sort of a second direct appeal as part 
of the collateral review process?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  It doesn't depend on it, 

Mr. Chief Justice.  We don't have to reach that question 
because, as I have said in answer to Justice Kennedy's 
question, you can resolve this under (d)(1).  But I was 
just trying to explain why the Fifth Circuit, which 
struggled with how to handle this scenario, was wrong in 
thinking it was governed by the tolling provision.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I guess it 

doesn't -- or does it really make a difference?  I mean, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

if you view the direct appeal that is the result of the 
collateral review process as part of the collateral 
review process, that time is tolled.  And if you take 
your view and regard it as not final to trigger the 
process until you have another final decision, it kind 
of leads to the same result, doesn't it?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  In many cases, but not all, 

including this one.  The difference is that if you 
regard this as governed by tolling, that the second --
what we will call for purposes of the argument, just so 
we know, the second appeal, so the appeal that's granted 
by the post-conviction report, if you regard the proper 
way of reading 2244 to be you have to regard that as 
being tolled and the start date is the dismissal of the 
original appeal, if the State Petitioner seeks 
post-conviction review more than one year after the 
dismissal of the first appeal, his Federal time is done. 
So, this --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But does that really 

matter?  I mean, the whole purpose of the Federal 
statute of limitations is to make sure these things get 
done within one year.  And if he waits a year before 
filing, then he's out of time under AEDPA.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  It is -- it is the case that 

Congress wanted it done within one year.  The question 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

presented by this case is one year of what?
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Right.
 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  So, there are four different 

possible start dates.  We know that the Fifth Circuit 
was wrong in the Salinas case when it said that Congress 
envisioned only a linear time period stopped only by 
tolling that would run from the first disposition of the 
case, because 2244(d)(1)(B), (C), and (D) are all 
provisions under which the time can expire and then be 
restarted.

 So, what we think Congress wanted when it 

was picking start dates and the start date in (d)(1)(A), 
the one that usually applies, is it wanted the State 
courts on direct review to be done with the case, finish 
it off.  Then the State petitioner will have one year to 
start the State post-conviction process and when that's 
done go on to Federal court.

 The reason we think Congress wanted to 

include the second appeal, the conclusion of the second 
appeal, as the trigger is that what's going on in the 
Federal district court is you are trying to decide if 
the State court's disposition of the case is contrary to 
clearly established law as established by this Court. 
And you won't know that, you won't even know what the 
Federal district court is supposed to be reviewing, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

until the conclusion of the second appeal.

 If I could just illustrate that, in the 

joint appendix at page 43, is the State court opinion in 
this case.  The Texas Court of Appeals decided this case 
and resolved his, the Petitioner's, Federal 
constitutional claims.  And it only did that in the 
second appeal.  And that's what Congress was concerned 
with the Federal district court's reviewing.  It's --
when this opinion is issued and then the Texas Court of 
Criminal Appeals, which is their highest court in 
criminal cases, denies review, then it's logical for the 
time period to start.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  In the background of this 
case, Mr. Goldstein, is that in fact he didn't know the 
first time that his appeal had been dismissed.  He 
didn't know that his lawyer had filed an Anders brief. 
But when he found that out, he waited some four and a 
half years.

 So why isn't the -- Texas right 

when it says look at (B) and (D), they would have fit 
his case?  He could have used those to get time starting 
from the date that he found out.  It wouldn't give him 
four and a half years.  But why -- you say we, all we 
have to consider is (A); you said that in answer to 
Justice Kennedy.  But why shouldn't we say that either 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

(B) or (D) fits his case?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Okay, can I answer that 

question, Justice Ginsburg, in two parts?

 First most directly, I want to explain our 
position with respect to (B) and (D) and then I want to 
discuss the broad thematic concern that's raised by our 
case.  Here's the troubling fact by our case, and that 
is the prospect that multiple State defendants will take 
more than a year, and I would like to deal with that 
thematic point and explain why I don't think that's a 
concern.

 But to start directly with your point, (B) 

and (D), assuming that they apply for a moment, will 
only accomplish the following -- and then I want to 
explain why I don't think they would apply.  But even if 
they apply, what they would do is defer the start date 
of the one year.  So on the facts in this case, one year 
after -- 11 months or so after the Texas Court of 
Appeals erroneously dismissed the Petitioner's first 
direct appeal without giving him the opportunity to file 
a pro se brief, he found out.

 On the State's view, the one-year Federal 

habeas corpus time would be deferred for 11 months, and 
that is a very generous defendant-favoring position for 
Texas to take in this Court.  If it then starts, it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

doesn't -- that reading does not accomplish what 
Congress wanted in 2244, because the State prisoner, 
though the time will have been deferred for a year, will 
still have to file for Federal habeas corpus within a 
year, notwithstanding the fact that he will get a second 
direct appeal.

 So he will be proceeding in both courts. 
His start date will have been deferred for 11 months, 
but he nonetheless one year later must appear in a 
Federal district court in Texas, even though on 
post-conviction review in the State courts he is sent 
back to direct review.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Oh, but is that 

right?  I mean unless you count, as I gather your 
friends on the other side would do, the period of direct 
appeal as part of the collateral review process?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  That's correct.  And that's 

the argument about Lawrence.  That argument is not 
sustainable in light of Lawrence.  Just to say that you 
have their argument exactly right, Mr. Chief Justice, 
the State's position is, as the Fifth Circuit held in 
the Salinas case, that when you get relief on 
post-conviction review and you are sent back to the 
State system, (d)(2) continues to apply, but that is not 
correct.  The tolling stops, and that is because, as 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Lawrence held, the application which is his 
post-conviction application in the State court, saying 
that I was deprived of my right to appeal, is no longer 
pending.  The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals has issued 
its mandate.  So that's why this anomaly arises under 
the application of (B) or (D) that we don't think 
Congress could have intended.

 Now, Justice Ginsburg, there is a second 

part to my answer, and that is the specific point about 
whether (B) and (D) do by their terms apply; and here we 
are in the anomalous position that if, again, Texas is 
arguing very defendant-favoring readings of (B) and (D) 
and I, representing the habeas Petitioner, am in the 
unusual role of questioning whether these later start 
dates apply.

 But here our -- the lower courts I think it 

is clear would say that (B) and (D) don't apply.  To 
take you to the textual -- the text of the statute, 
again, (B) appears at the bottom of page 1 of the blue 
brief; and that has a start date of the date on which 
the impediment for filing an application created by 
State action in violation of the Constitution or laws of 
the United States is removed, if the applicant was 
prevented from filing by such State action.  And the 
lower courts, as we explained in our brief, pretty 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

uniformly conclude that the failure to give a defendant 
notice that his appeal has been dismissed is not an 
impediment created by State action to him filing a 
Federal habeas corpus application.  And so their attempt 
to grapple with our unusual facts has -- would 
substantially broaden the application of subsection (B).
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What about the State 

convicting, penalizing the defendant despite the fact 
that his constitutional right to competent counsel 
was -- he lost that right because of the failure of 
notification?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  It's just -- it's not 

regarded as an impediment.  The -- the courts -- the 
lower courts take quite literally that there has to be 
an impediment.  The lower court decisions grappling with 
what an impediment is deal with the situation where a 
prison warden, for example, does not allow you access to 
the prison mails or somehow access to the legal 
resources you in order to be able to file it.  He won't 
deliver the habeas corpus application.

 (D) is even easier, I think, and that is the 

deadline starts from the date on which the factual 
predicate of the claim or claims presented could have 
been discovered through the exercise of due diligence. 
And the reason the State is not right about that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

provision and does not even really seriously argue it is 
that the claims referenced in (D) are the claims that 
are presented in the Federal habeas corpus application. 
Here that's the claim that he had ineffective assistance 
of trial counsel and that the judge was biased against 
him.  They are not the claim that he received -- that he 
was denied the right to an appeal.  And so it just --
there is no textual basis to say that the later start 
date would apply under (D).

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Is this just a 

dispute about the label?  Because Texas chooses to call 
the proceeding that you get if you are successful on 
collateral review a second direct appeal, you would 
count finality one way; if they just switch the label 
and say that is the collateral review appeal process, 
then you would agree with them?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  No, sir.  We think that you 
have to look at substance.  As -- the language that we 
use in a footnote in our reply brief addressing this is 
whether the proceeding has the hallmarks of direct 
review.  There are two States that do have a procedure, 
South Carolina and Delaware, in which you can raise your 
claim on post-conviction review that you were deprived 
of your right to a direct appeal.  And the 
post-conviction court has the power to decide that on 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

post-conviction review.

 We haven't found a case in which they actual 

exercised the power, but it appears that 48 of the 50 
States deal with this problem the way Texas does, and 
that is the relief that you get is that you are sent 
back into the direct review system.  And then we think 
it's covered quite plainly by the text of (d)(1).  When 
that direct review is over, direct review concludes by 
its plain terms.

 Now, Justice Ginsburg, I had said that I 

wanted to come back and deal with the thematic problem 
that might concern the Court about our case, and that is 
the prospect that we will have defendants filing State 
post-conviction applications more than a year late, 
which could trouble the Court.  As the Chief Justice 
indicated, Congress had a concern with moving this 
process along.

 In addition just to the plain text of the 

statute which we think is controlling, there are I think 
three points.  The first is there are State limitations 
principles that get these State prisoners to file their 
applications in a timely way.  Now, in the great 
majority of States that's set by a number of years.  In 
some States like Texas it's applied by the principle of 
laches.  And the important point and the reason we are 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

here today is that Texas, for whatever reason -- and the 
time limitations are intended to protect Texas here --
decided not to assert that his State post-conviction 
application was untimely.  It didn't object to the 
granting of relief to the Petitioner at all.

 The second reason, in addition to the 
State's own limitations period, is that the AEDPA 
one-year limitations period has real force.  In the 
great majority of cases in which a State defendant is 
going to allege that he was deprived of his right to an 
appeal and raise that claim on State post-conviction 
review, he's going to lose that claim.  The -- the 
States don't give this stuff out like candy, and the 
Texas Court of Criminal Appeals is not, you know, 
constantly reinstating defendant's appeals.  And 
defendants know that.

 And unless you prevail on this claim, you 
are stuck with the one-year AEDPA time that runs from 
the dismissal of your first appeal.  And so you have 
every incentive in the world to get into State court 
quickly.

 And the third is just the general notion 

that defendants in non-capital cases don't have a real 
incentive to just delay before instituting a State 
post-conviction review.  And --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Suppose it is denied by --

by the State court.  And suppose it's denied by the 
State court more -- more than a year after the 
conclusion of the original proceeding.  What -- what is 
the consequence then?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I -- can I just ask one 

point of clarification?  If he instituted it more than a 
year after the dismissal of the first proceeding, he is 
out of time, because there is only one final judgment, 
and that is the original dismissal.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Suppose he institutes it, 

however, within the year.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Okay.  If he instituted 

it -- can I just say six months?  So six months' after 
the first dismissal, the Petitioner appears in the Texas 
post-conviction court.  At that point (d)(2) starts to 
apply, because he has a properly filed application for 
State post-conviction relief.  The State court -- the 
State post-conviction court takes three months to 
dispose of it, a year to dispose of it; it doesn't 
matter.  When the State post-conviction court is done 
and in your hypothetical denies him relief, he has six 
months left to go to federal district court.  (d)(2) 
operates as it should.  While the case is sitting in the 
State post-conviction court --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And he can't go to Federal 

court until that is resolved?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  That is correct, because he 
has not exhausted his claim.  When the claim is that you 
were denied your right to a direct appeal, the only 
place that you can raise that claim is State 
post-conviction review.  Federal habeas corpus requires 
you to exhaust your available State remedies.  Your 
available State remedy for that is State post-conviction 
review.  He may not appear in Federal district court. 
The district court I think would abuse its discretion in 
staying a plainly unexhausted claim.  That wouldn't be 
good cause, as this Court has said, for it.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  If you do prevail, it is 

rather dramatic, because your client was stunningly 
negligent.  He does nothing for four and-a-half years, 
then strolls over to the State court.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, Justice Kennedy, the 

State, as I said, did not raise this argument in the 
place where we think it's appropriate, and that no 
record was built on laches.  It does -- it does have 
that feel.

 I do think that the Court's opinion could 

make clear that this anomaly arises from the fact that, 
despite the fact that the Texas courts have made clear 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that there are laches principles and limitations --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  May I ask if laches is 
something that the Texas court could bring up on its 
own, or is it for the State to raise or not as it 
chooses?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  It is for the State to 

raise, and we cite our Texas authority for that in our 
reply brief, Justice Ginsburg.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Is the State statute that 

allows the early conviction to be set aside and the 
appeal reinstated -- do we have that statute?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Justice Kennedy, that is 

section 11 -- article 11.07.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I thought I had it.  Do we 

have it in --

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I do not believe you do. 

And the reason is that article 11.07 is just the general 
Texas post-conviction regime.  The procedure that is 
used for reinstating direct appeals is developed through 
caselaw, not by statute.

 Justice Scalia, there was a final point that 

I was about to make when I said, look, defendants in 
non-capital cases have every incentive, if they want to 
get relief, to move their cases along.  The Court may be 
concerned about capital cases where there is the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

opposite concern, that defendants will try and keep 
their cases alive, if you will.  And Texas recognizes 
this point and has a deadline by statute that is quite 
short for instituting post-conviction relief in capital 
cases.

 They simply recognize that laches is the way 

to handle the prospect of delay in non-capital cases. 
We don't think there is any reason for this Court to 
override that determination, to second guess the 
judgment of the Texas court that the judgment is not 
final until the reinstated appeal concludes.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What happens -- just out of 
curiosity, a prisoner's lawyer doesn't take the appeal, 
the time expires, bong, the year begins to run.  Within 
that year he files federal habeas.  Then he discovers 
that he had a right to a state appeal.  So he goes, just 
like this man, goes back and, sure enough, he gets his 
direct appeal, and three years later or a year later 
they finish the direct appeal.  Bong, he can file again.

 Is that his first habeas or his second 

habeas?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I have to ask one question, 

sir, because the answer is it depends.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.
 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  The question is, when he 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

files for Federal habeas corpus the first time in your 
hypothetical, I take it he doesn't raise the claim --

JUSTICE BREYER:  No.
 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  He raises a substantive 
claim, like the judge was biased against him and the 
like?

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.
 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  That is regarded as a first 
habeas application, because the claim did not -- I think 
the judgment did not arise until later.  I don't believe 
a case like that has arisen.  I think --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I doubt that one -- I mean, 

one may never arise but --

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  The strange thing is that it 

is an exhausted set of claims.  So it is a proper 
Federal habeas corpus application, because he went to --
JUSTICE BREYER:  The first one is proper and 

on your view so is the second one proper.  So they are 
both proper, and there are two of them.  And --

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  It's proper in terms of it 
being exhausted.  It would be dismissed, to be clear. 
So his appeal was denied, right?  He doesn't file an 
appeal in the hypothetical.  So when he shows up in 
Federal district court, it's an exhausted -- it is -- he 
would be dismissed for failure to exhaust, in fact, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

because he didn't pursue his --

JUSTICE BREYER:  No, nobody knows about 

this.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  But he -- but he was --
JUSTICE BREYER:  No, but nobody knows that 

the State made a mistake in not giving him a direct 
review.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Your hypothetical, Justice 

Breyer, I took it to be --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Oh, forget my hypothetical. 

They're never going to come up.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I think, though, I can tell 
you this with some confidence.  The way that this thing 
happened in Texas is the way that it happens in the 
States, and the way it happens in Federal courts as well 
under 2255.  You file a post-conviction application. 
You say:  I was denied entirely my right of appeal by 
something the court did or something my lawyer did, and 
then you get to pursue your appeal.

 And that's what Congress wanted the Federal 

district court on habeas corpus to review.  So 
logically, the one year begins to run after that's done.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, except that 

you kind of elide the point that Congress and AEDPA 
quite clearly wanted these federal claims to be brought 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

within a year.  This seems to allow the State processes 
to trump the one-year requirement.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, in many cases, 

Mr. Chief Justice, of course, the State appeals can take 
20 years to go up and down and back and forth from State 
post-conviction review.  We also have the rather 
commonplace case in which a defendant doesn't file a 
notice of appeal at all, as in Justice Breyer's 
hypothetical, but the court of appeal says, you know, 
for good cause we are going to let you file this appeal 
late.

 And it's quite clear in that scenario, so 
your appeal is reinstated there, too, because you were 
20 days late, 30 days late on the filing deadline.  It's 
quite clear and I think agreed in all of those 
situations that, while Congress did want you to move 
expeditiously, the question is move expeditiously from 
when.  And it's from the State court's direct review, 
finishing the conclusion of direct review.

 And we know that Congress recognized that 
that wouldn't always be one year from the end of the 
case the first time around from the structure of (B), 
(C), and (D); and the fact that if there were a 
tie-breaker at all, it is that the statute shall -- the 
limitation period shall run from the latest of several 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

days.  So Congress quite clearly contemplated that there 
would be multiple possible start dates.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You said that it's 

unusual for the Texas State to grant these.  But 
presumably you could challenge the determination five, 
ten, 15 years later by the Texas court not to grant you 
a direct appeal.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I'm not sure I understand 
the -- the hypothetical, Mr. Chief Justice.  If -- if 
you lose your post-conviction application for it?

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Yeah.  Let's say 
this fellow -- the State court says, well, you know 
what, we are not going to give you another direct 
appeal.  And he says, well, that decision was made in 
violation of my federal constitutional rights.  What 
happens then with respect to federal habeas?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, he is challenging his 

original -- Federal habeas corpus is reviewing the 
judgment in his case.  He has, since there was only one 
conclusion of direct review in his case, one year 
measured from the first dismissal, tolled only during 
the period of pending post-conviction application.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But is he 

challenging the first conviction, or is he challenging 
the failure of the State court to give him another 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

direct appeal?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  He is challenging the fact 

that he was denied a direct appeal, which is a challenge 
to his actual conviction.  That is a constitutional flaw 
in his conviction.  And so it runs from the conclusion 
of the direct review, not from anything related to 
post-conviction review.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that's I 

gather if he is granted the collateral -- the direct --
second direct appeal.  What if the Court says no, we 
don't agree that you were denied your right to a direct 
appeal; we think you had it so you don't get another 
one.  And he says that determination has been made in 
violation of the Federal Constitution.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  The fact that the State 

post-conviction court did not remedy a violation of his 
constitutional rights on direct review does not create a 
new constitutional violation.  The constitutional 
violation in your hypothetical arises on direct review.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, doesn't it 
depend upon the allegation he wishes to make?  Say he 
comes in in one of these proceedings four and a half 
years later and says, you should give me another direct 
review, I didn't have it.  And the court says, well, no, 
we're not going to give you one.  And he says, well, you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

give it to all the white criminal defendants and you are 
not giving it to me, so that violates equal protection?
 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I don't think so.  And if I 

could just explain -- give an analogy.  Say he could 
make the same allegation about ineffective assistance of 
trial counsel.  You can always try and recharacterize 
your claim as the post-conviction court violated my 
constitutional rights by not vindicating my original 
constitutional rights, my right to constitutionally 
effective counsel at trial or on appeal.  And the 
Federal habeas courts uniformly reject those efforts to 
recharacterize.  The constitutional violation arises in 
the original criminal case.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I guess my 

hypothetical supposes a new constitutional violation. 
And I am just suggesting that the fact that Texas 
doesn't grant this relief freely doesn't mean that 
that's a sufficient answer with respect to the abuse of 
federal habeas.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I understand, 

Mr. Chief Justice.  I think that body of cases is 
relatively narrow as it arises, and it also isn't 
implicated here.

 If the Court has no further questions, I 

will reserve the remainder of my time. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Jordan.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF SEAN D. JORDAN

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. JORDAN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 Congress's commitment to preventing 

unnecessary delays in the filing of Federal habeas 
claims is reflected in section 2244(d)(1)'s strict 
one-year limitations period.  And it did not intend that 
inmates who wait for years before seeking 
post-conviction review would obtain a new Federal 
limitation start date when an out-of-time appeal is 
awarded.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, why should that be, 
given the fact that the day it is going to run from is 
the day that -- which the State of Texas is willing to 
take action.  And if Texas is willing to let the matter 
ride as long as it rode here, why shouldn't the one-year 
statute apply?

 In other words, I guess what I'm saying is 

the -- the decision about what is appropriate, that, 
in effect, would start this period running, is Texas's 
And as long as Texas is -- is satisfied with it, why 
does AEDPA have an independent concern? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. JORDAN:  Your Honor, the reason is that 

in (d)(1)(A) Congress set a uniform Federal rule for 
finality.  And that finality date is either when the --
the period of direct review ends by the conclusion of 
direct review or the expiration of the time for seeking 
direct review.

 So when that happens, by statute, Congress 
has said that the (d)(1)(A) finality date is attached.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes, but that -- in effect, 

I think that begs the question, because if -- if Texas 
says:  Okay, we are going to -- we are going to 
recognize a direct appeal starting -- or a direct-appeal 
right exercisable now, then (d)(1)(A) applies by its own 
terms exactly at the -- at the conclusion of the process 
which Texas has at this date chosen to allow.

 Texas doesn't have any gripe.  It decided it 

ought to act, and -- and, undoubtedly, it should have.
 As long as the -- as long as the State is 

protected, why is there an independent interest in 
enforcing AEDPA, or enforcing the shortest possible rule 
under AEDPA?

 MR. JORDAN:  Justice Souter, there is an 

independent Federal interest that the Court has 
recognized consistently in avoiding abusive and 
unnecessary delay in the filing of Federal habeas 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

claims.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yeah, but we are -- we are 

concerned about State interests, aren't we?

 MR. JORDAN:  Certainly, Justice Souter, and 

comity and finality are important purposes of AEDPA. 
But another recognized and important purpose of AEDPA is 
to avoid, you know, abusive and unnecessary delays in 
the filing of Federal habeas claims.  So even if a State 
court would allow stale claims years later to be heard, 
that doesn't mean that Federal courts need to hear those 
claims 10, 15 or 20 years later.

 But there is a second point, Justice Souter, 
that -- that is a problem with interpreting (d)(1)(A) in 
the manner the Petitioner suggests, which is that it 
will make it far more difficult for Federal courts to 
administer that statute.  Because if the Court 
interprets "direct review" to bring in Texas and all the 
50 States various remedies for ineffective assistance of 
counsel on appeal, then what that means is you are no 
longer going to have a uniform Federal rule for finality 
in any of these cases.

 What you are going to have is a patchwork of 

-- of various dates, and the -- the reality is --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, you have got a -- in 

a sense, you have got a patchwork now.  I mean not --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

not every State rule for the commencement of a direct 
appeal in the normal course is -- is identical.  So we 
-- we start with a patchwork.

 MR. JORDAN:  But the difference is stark, 

Justice Souter, because the -- the dates that the States 
use for deadlines on initial direct appeal, the vast 
majority, are within a short timeframe, 20 days to 
90 days, the vast majority.  Whereas, these remedies for 
out-of-time appeals are genuinely varied, and they vary 
over time in the States.

 And if I could give you a couple of examples 

--

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But aren't they -- and I 

will -- you know, I will take the examples, but I mean, 
aren't they varied because the -- the circumstances of 
error which led to these late appeals vary, too?  And 
isn't that exactly the way it ought to be?

 MR. JORDAN:  Well, it is correct, Justice 
Souter, that some States -- the remedy varies with the 
type of ineffective assistance of counsel, for example, 
the difference between not filing a notice of appeal or 
not filing a brief.

 But my point is that those remedies -- the 
Petitioner's brief -- opening brief at pages 29 to 32 
says:  This is going to be easy for Federal courts to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

apply, because what they can do is look at these six 
different aspects of the nature of the remedy in each 
State, and they can determine from that whether --
when -- whether it should be a new start date or just 
tolling.  The --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Can't we leave 

that -- and you suggest that it is a Federal rule.  I am 
not sure that's right.  Why don't we just leave that up 
to the States?  I am not -- if I don't accept your 
friend's determination that this is a matter of 
substance rather than form, States have it -- excuse 
me -- within their control.  Here -- your State calls it 
another direct appeal.

 Why don't we just take them at their word? 

And if they don't want to get into the business of 
having a Federal review of a second direct appeal that 
they choose to allow, they just call it something else. 
Call it a -- you know, the collateral review of a 
successful claim of ineffective assistance of counsel 
and file whatever.  And then, you know, under AEDPA that 
wouldn't count as a new final judgment.

 MR. JORDAN:  Well, it's -- it's true, Your 

Honor, that the -- that States can fashion whatever 
remedy they want.  And in terms of the comity and 
finality interests, it is going to be a responsibility 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of the States if they want to change their law.  But 
because in -- in these out-of-time appeals -- and most 
of the States' remedies look somewhat like in --
somewhat like Texas in the sense that they are coming 
through post-conviction review and they -- they are 
awarding another, if you will, chance for the inmate to 
assert his claims.  There is not a reason for the court 
to strain the interpretation of (d)(1)(A) to protect the 
State's interest --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Why -- why is it a strain? 
I mean suppose that Texas decided to give every criminal 
defendant convicted one thousand years to appeal.  You 
know, if they did, I guess they would have one more year 
after that to go to Federal habeas, right?

 MR. JORDAN:  That's true, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  Then what's the 

difference between that, giving them a thousand years, 
which I doubt they will do, and what they have said 
here?  They said for purposes of the Texas rules all 
time limits shall be calculated as if the sentence had 
been imposed on the date that the mandate of this court 
issues.

 There they are.  The Texas Supreme Court 

gave him all that time, it's whatever it was, and said 
that's the time you have.  How, how is that different 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

from the legislature decides to give him one 
thousand years?

 MR. JORDAN:  It's true, Your Honor, that the 
-- that the -- the Texas court made a decision to give a 
remedy to this inmate that was meant to duplicate the 
type of claims he could have raised on direct appeal. 
Our position is that does not change the finality date 
under (d)(1)(A), because by statute, Congress has said 
that that date attaches at the -- at the expiration of 
direct review.  And -- and the natural reading of that 
language --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I -- I was 

just going to stop you there.  It doesn't say that 
starts to run at the expiration of direct review.  It 
says on the date the judgment became final.

 MR. JORDAN:  That's correct, Your Honor, and 

it says, it became final by --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- by the conclusion 

of direct review.

 MR. JORDAN:  Or the expiration of the time 

for seeking such review.  And the importance there, Your 
Honor, is that it -- it anticipates one of two events 
occurring.  In other words, the natural reading is 
Congress understood that in some cases there wasn't 
going to be a conclusion of direct review.  There was 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

going to be an expiration of time for seeking review. 
And at that point finality would attach.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Even though, as in this 

case, it turned out he found out within a year.  But 
suppose he didn't find out for more than a year; that 
is, he didn't find out that -- that the appeal had been 
filed, and he didn't find out about the dismissal?  So 
because either his counsel or the State blundered, he is 
out in the cold, and he can never present his direct-
appeal claim.

 MR. JORDAN:  Not necessarily, Justice 

Ginsburg, and that's the reason why Congress already 
provided exceptions in the statute in the form of 
subsections (b) through (d) that provide later start 
dates for extenuating circumstances beyond the inmate's 
control.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Goldstein just 

explained to us why those two provisions, the (b) and 
(d) would not work.  That this --

MR. JORDAN:  I understand, Your Honor.  And, 

respectfully, I disagree -- I disagree with that, and 
here is the reason why (d)(1)(B) applies.  And (d)(1)(B) 
applies because in -- for example, in this case you had 
the -- a finding that there was constitutionally 
ineffective assistance of counsel to the extent of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

abandoning the inmate on appeal.

 And this Court's precedent has said that 

when there is -- in the trial or on direct appeal, when 
there is ineffectiveness of counsel that amounts to 
abandonment, that winds up being imputed to the State 
because it means that the State got or -- or kept a 
conviction by the violation of the inmate's due-process 
rights.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Do you have a case 
to cite for that?  Because I understood your friend to 
say the opposite:  That wouldn't count as an impediment.

 MR. JORDAN:  I do --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How do I resolve 

that dispute?

 MR. JORDAN:  I do, Your Honor.  You -- you 

need -- need to look no longer than the case that is 
cited in both briefs.  It is Evitts versus Lucey, and it 
is cited in the Petitioner's brief at pages 27 and 37, 
and it is cited in our brief at pages 36 and 37.

 It is also in another case not cited in the 
brief, but it is also noted in Coleman versus Thompson. 
In other words, the Court has consistently said that 
where there is constructive denial of counsel that 
amounts to no assistance at all and the State thereby 
obtains and retains a conviction, there -- that will be 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

imputed to the State.  Now, the difficult part in 
getting (d)(1)(B), a later date under (d)(1)(B), is that 
you also need the causal connection, because you can't 
just have the ineffective assistance of counsel.  It 
also has to have caused the inmate not to be able to 
file his -- his timely Federal habeas.  That happened in 
this case because the ineffective assistance of counsel 
resulted in the inmate having a lack of notice.  The 
attorney did not serve the Anders brief on the inmate 
and he gave the wrong address to the court.  So the 
court wound up sending the judgment to the wrong address 
and the inmate didn't know.

 That's why we say in those circumstances 
(d)(1)(B) is implicated.  But it's worth noting that 
even if we measure the date from September of 1997 or we 
give him a new date under (d)(1)(B), then that's the 
date that he admits, he acknowledges, he knew his State 
appeal had failed.  From that date, he waited four and a 
half years to seek any type of post-conviction review. 
And then -- and the importance of that is that Congress 
intended to give a year, a strict one-year period.  This 
inmate could have invoked (d)(1)(B) and he did not and 
he waited four and a half years from the date he could 
have had.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And Texas could -- and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Texas could have gone into the State court and said: 
Don't give him the direct review; he waited four and a 
half years after he -- but the State didn't ask for 
that.

 MR. JORDAN:  That's correct, Your Honor. 

The State did not assert a laches defense, but I have --
there is two points on that:  One is that the only case 
-- there is one case and it's cited in the brief, Ex 
parte Carrio.  It's cited in the Petitioner's brief. 
There's one case in the last 150 years of Texas 
jurisprudence where laches has actual been asserted and 
an appeal has been -- I'm sorry -- habeas has been 
denied based on that.

 And we are not talking about -- we are not 

asserting laches here.  We are talking about the running 
of his Federal limitations period under a Federal 
statute.  And what we are saying is this inmate was 
clearly not diligent, and this inmate could have had a 
later start date, but even from that later start date 
he would -- he would -- the Federal period would have 
expired.

 I would like to address quickly the (d)(2) 

point because I think it's important.  The reference was 
made that (d)(2) doesn't work, In other words (d)(2) 
tolling won't work in this case because of the Court's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

decision in Lawrence.  And that's -- that's not true, 
because the situation in Lawrence was different.

 In Lawrence, the Court's decision said that 
inmate had exhausted all of his post-conviction review 
in the Florida courts.  He had gone all the way to the 
top court.  There was no State court left for him to go 
to.  And the question was, when he then came to this 
Court with a cert petition, could that cert petition 
count as tolling time of review for the State 
post-conviction review?  The Court said no.

 That's not the case here.  This is more like 
the Court's decision in Carey versus Saffold, where in, 
Carey, the Court said -- the Court acknowledged that 
under California law where inmates can, if they lose 
their habeas in a lower court, they can then file an 
original writ in a higher court.  The Court said that, 
while the inmate is going through that process, the 
collateral review of the underlying judgment remained 
pending, it remained in continuance.

 And that's what's happening here.  If you 

look at what happened in the Texas court, when the 
inmate files his habeas petition, the habeas petition 
itself is not reviewing the pertinent judgment.  That's 
the language of (d)(2), "reviewing the pertinent 
judgment."  That habeas petition asks for a second 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

proceeding to review the pertinent judgment.  It says, 
can you give me another proceeding, the out-of-time 
appeal, to review the pertinent judgment?  And so, when 
the inmate receives that, when he -- if he gets the 
out-of-time appeal, then the next step, the out-of-time 
appeal, is where the judgment is reviewed.

 So, the Court's rationale in Carey is 

applicable with even greater force here because the 
State courts have told him:  File another -- you know, 
continue your proceeding so you can get review of the 
underlying judgment.  And it anticipates a two-step 
process.  So you might say that the out-of-time appeal 
is the remedy portion of the habeas proceeding in Texas. 
And that's why the (d)(2) tolling does work and Lawrence 
does not defeat that.  And in this case, that means that 
the inmate, if he had acted timely, he could have filed 
his State post-conviction petition.  If he had obtained 
an out-of-time appeal, he could -- the tolling would 
have gone on while -- throughout the out-of-time appeal. 
And then if he had lost that, he could have then gone to 
Federal court.  And so --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, you're saying that 

(2) has a negative implication.

 MR. JORDAN:  I'm sorry?
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You are saying that (2) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

had a negative implication.  In other words, the time 
shall not be counted while it's pending and that it 
should be counted if it's not pending and you are not 
diligent.

 MR. JORDAN:  That's -- well, that's correct, 

Your Honor, in the sense that if the State -- some 
collateral review in State court has to be pending for 
tolling to be going on.  And what we are saying is that 
for the out-of-time appeal process in Texas, it does 
remain pending.  The reason it remains pending is that 
that first habeas petition is asking for, and if the 
inmate gets it is receiving, further collateral review 
of that judgment because --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  When you say "the 
first habeas petition" you mean the first State habeas 
petition?

 MR. JORDAN:  That's correct, Your Honor.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.  I'm sorry.
 MR. JORDAN:  And that first State habeas 
petition -- if you look -- if you look in the record, 
you will see the State habeas petition doesn't challenge 
anything about the underlying judgment.  It doesn't say, 
give me relief on any particular claim.  What it says 
is, give me an out-of-time appeal proceeding so that I 
can challenge the underlying judgment.  And so, when the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

inmate obtains that out-of-time appeal to -- to get 
review of the underlying judgment, (d)(2) tolling still 
applies.  And that --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry.  What do 

you mean, "(d)(2) tolling still applies"?  That the 
direct appeal time does not count against his one year?

 MR. JORDAN:  That's correct.  The 

out-of-time appeal time, Your Honor, won't count.  So 
what we'll go on is that if his habeas was granted and 
he was allowed the out-of-time appeal, he could pursue 
the out-of-time appeal.  The tolling of the Federal 
limitations period under (d)(2) would remain during that 
entire time, if he then loses his out-of-time appeal and 
he comes out of the other side of the process.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's assuming that he 

files the appeal within one year, right?

 MR. JORDAN:  That's -- I mean, if he does, 

that's correct, Your Honor.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What if he doesn't?
 MR. JORDAN:  If he doesn't file his State 

habeas within one year?

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes.
 MR. JORDAN:  Your Honor, if he doesn't file 

--

JUSTICE SCALIA:  The game is over. 

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. JORDAN:  Well, it would be, Your Honor, 

unless he fell into one of the exceptions provided by 
Congress in (B), (C), or (D).

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What if he doesn't find out 
about the fact that notice, proper notice, wasn't given 
to his counsel, so he doesn't find out about the 
gravamen for the appeal until after a year?

 MR. JORDAN:  Your Honor, two points in 

response.  The first is that -- is that I'm assuming, in 
your hypothetical, that it is an inmate who has 
attempted to be diligent, has attempted to contact the 
court.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Right.  Right.
 MR. JORDAN:  And if he has attempted to 

contact the court and he still had not found out, the 
circumstances -- I mean, we've looked at a lot of these 
cases and there is just very few out there where an 
inmate who is being diligent is not going to be able to 
find out one way or the other.  So, it may be that if he 
wasn't able to, he might fall under (d)(1)(B).  But if 
he didn't, Your Honor, and it was an unusual -- and it 
would have to be a very unusual circumstance -- it might 
be that equitable tolling could apply.  But this Court 
has recognized, in Dodd v. United States, in 
interpreting the similar provisions in the counterpart 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to 2244(d)(1)(C), in the context of when the Court 
recognizes a retroactively applicable --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I don't think (d)(1)(B) 

does.  It requires an impediment to have been removed. 
There is no impediment being removed.  He just didn't 
find out the facts.

 MR. JORDAN:  Well, presumably, Your Honor, 
the reason that he didn't would have -- if he was being 
diligent, if he was -- because he needs to be diligent. 
He can't just sit in his cell --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Right.  Right.
 MR. JORDAN:  -- and say, "I'm not going to 

do anything."  If he is being diligent and if he is 
really attempting to find out what happened to his case, 
then probably something has happened, either, you know, 
through the State system or through the attorney.  But 
if it has not -- you know, again, we've looked at a lot 
of these cases.  We haven't seen cases like that, but --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I just made one up.  I 

mean, it's a hypothetical.

 MR. JORDAN:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  But it works.  Your system, 

I think, works in that instance, as I understand it. 
Don't tell me I'm right if I'm wrong, please.  But the 
-- as you understand it, he finishes -- he doesn't get 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

his appeal, you know, and time passes; doesn't take it. 
Then, five years later, he learns for the first time and 
the first time he could have learned that his lawyer 
tore up the notification.  At that point, (1)(B) comes 
into play.  So the year begins to run.

 Then, in your idea, he has -- he has a year 
to go to Federal court.  But wait, it's tolled while he 
goes to State court.  So he goes to State court having 
just learned it.  And now he's under (2) and he files a 
habeas in State.  Now the remedy of the State habeas is 
to reopen the direct appeal.  But we should count that, 
since it's a remedy of a habeas, as if it were a 
continuation of the habeas and therefore it would fall 
within (2).  That's your argument.
 MR. JORDAN:  Exactly.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  And it's -- correct?  I do 
not think there is any case ever considered that to my 
knowledge.

 MR. JORDAN:  No --
JUSTICE BREYER:  -- and the only difficulty 
of it is that you have to take a sort of leap of faith 
of some kind in attaching what everybody's calling the 
direct appeal as if it were actually part of the State 
habeas proceeding.  That's I think the hardest part of 
your argument. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  There is more of a problem 
than that, as the other side just said.  (1)(B), which 
is the gimmick you are using to get out of this, doesn't 
speak of not being able to find out in time; it speaks 
of the date on which the impediment to file an 
application --

JUSTICE BREYER:  (D).
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- is removed.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  It's not (B), it's (D).
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Oh, you said (D), not (B).
 JUSTICE BREYER:  (D).
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I thought, 

Counsel, that your response to that was when you have a 
failure of counsel, that that is imputed to the State. 
So it is a removal of an impediment created by the 
State.

 MR. JORDAN:  That's -- that's correct, 

Mr. Chief Justice.  That's -- under the Court's decision 
is cases like Evitts v Lucey, if there has been a 
constructive denial of counsel, an abandonment of 
counsel to the degree where there was effectively no 
appeal, then that could be imputed to the State.  The 
reasoning has been that it's because the State was able 
to get or keep a conviction without the inmate having 
due process.  That would be -- the inmate would still 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

have to have the fact that that impediment actually 
caused him to -- and this case is a good example.

 Even though this inmate -- you know, there 
was ineffectiveness of counsel -- if the court had the 
right address, and court had sent him the judgment, then 
there would not have been the causal connection; he 
wouldn't have been able to get the (d)(1)(D) date.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  The problem with (1)(D) is 
that the claim or claims presented that is referred to 
in (D) is not the denial of the appeal.  It's the claim 
or claims that he wants to bring in his Federal habeas. 
That's why (1)(D) doesn't work, you have to go back to 
(1)(B).

 I'm talking to you.
 (Laughter.)
 JUSTICE BREYER:  But I think it's a good 

point.

 MR. JORDAN:  Well, you are exactly right, 

Justice Scalia, that (d)(1)(D), in this case, because it 
is claim-specific it only does apply to the ineffective 
assistance of counsel on appeal.  We noted in our brief 
that it was implicated, but because he got relief on 
that claim in the State court, there was no reason for 
him to -- so he wouldn't have -- the (D) was implicated 
but didn't need to be asserted. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

We are that saying (d)(1)(B) --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  (B).
 MR. JORDAN: -- is -- is -- in play in the 
case because of the unique circumstances of this -- of 
this --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Between your response to 

the Chief Justice and Justice Scalia, I stand 
enlightened.

 MR. JORDAN:  It's the interplay of these two 
-- of these two provisions, because both of them in any 
particular case could be in play.  If the -- - if, for 
example, this inmate had not gotten relief in the State 
court for his ineffectiveness of counsel on appeal, then 
the (d)(1)(D) could have provided a later start date for 
that claim.  It's (d)(1)(B) that applies to the other 
claims.  And the -- you know, the bottom line notion for 
our position is that it cannot be that Congress intended 
in this -- this statute to be interpreted such that a 
non-diligent inmate who waits four and a half years 
after he knows his appeal has failed to seek any sort of 
post-conviction relief will obtain a new start date.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But that's your fault.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Justice could have -- not 

only, that don't some States have a limitation period 
when -- when he finds out that his appeal has been 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

dismissed, without notice to him, aren't there some 
States, criminal justice systems, that say from the date 
that you had knowledge, you have X days to file?

 MR. JORDAN:  Yes, Your Honor.  There are a 
number of States that have -- if we are talking about 
remedies for ineffective assistance of counsel on 
appeal, there are a number of States that have 
deadlines; but there are at least 19 States that provide 
remedies for ineffectiveness of counsel on appeal with 
no statute of limitations.

 And in -- and in those States and in many 

cases what that means is that the inmate, like this 
inmate, could come five years later, ten years later, 
and make those claims.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, do I understand 
correctly that, based on your answers and your friend's 
answers, there is no difference between the way you two 
in substance read these provisions?  He relies on 
(d)(1)(A); you rely on the combination of (d)(2) and 
(d)(1)(B) and (d); except in the situation where you 
have a non-diligent prisoner, and in that case, his 
theory leads to a different result than yours.

 He excuses the non-diligence because the 

State chooses to label the second opportunity as final. 
You do not excuse the non-diligence because in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

absence of diligence, (d)(1)(B) and (d)(1)(D) do not 
apply.

 MR. JORDAN:  That's correct, Mr. Chief 

Justice.  And I'd like to address a point that's made in 
the reply brief, about --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Then it comes down 

-- it does come down to his, where he began his 
argument, which is he said that this is an unusual case 
where Texas is being overly generous to convicts, 
because you choose to label it as direct appeal and 
therefore that means someone that the States allow to 
have another direct appeal, even though they have been 
non-diligent, get the benefit of the -- of a new 
finality date.

 MR. JORDAN:  That's correct, Your Honor, and 
our position is that Texas -- not Texas or any State can 
rewrite the -- this Federal statute and a finality date 
in this Federal statute.  But I want to address quickly 
the point that's made in a reply brief that the Court 
not worry about this because there is no incentive for 
non-capital inmates to -- to sit on their rights.  And I 
have two points I want to make on that.

 The first is Congress has already made that 

decision.  Obviously Congress was concerned that even 
non-capital inmates could sit on their rights because 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

they imposed this strict one-year limitation on 
non-capital inmates.  But the second point is that as a 
practical matter this happens in many, many cases. 
These cases provide the example.  In this case the 
inmate waited five years.  The Frasch v Peguese case 
that is coming out of the Fourth Circuit on an 
out-of-time appeal, the inmate -- a non-capital inmate 
waited ten years to seek post-conviction review.  And so 
these are cases that we think are representative of many 
case that would come through the district courts, and 
that in fact non-capital inmates, whatever their 
incentives may be, do as a practical matter sometimes 
sit on their rights.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Convicted felons don't 

always make intelligent decisions, you are saying.
 MR. JORDAN:  That's correct.  And the 

problem is that when -- when for whatever reason they 
sit on their rights ten or 15 years, our point is that 
that doesn't mean they can come back in and have Federal 
courts hearing stale claims that should have been 
brought, if the inmate was being diligent, years 
earlier.

 And there's -- and this case is a case in 

point.  This inmate has -- has provided no reason why --
no legitimate reason why he waited four and a half 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

years.  The only reason he provided was I am a pro se 
inmate and I -- I don't know what the law S.  And you 
can his data in the joint appendix pages 109 to 112, and 
those are directly rejected by the court in the Johnson 
case, Johnson v United States.  The court said in that 
case --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Am I correct that on the 
underlying merits of the basic claims, that each -- his 
lawyer filed an Anders brief?

 MR. JORDAN:  That's correct, Justice --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  He's probably not a very 

-- he's not -- has the greatest in the world of 
succeeding, I wouldn't suppose.

 Isn't this characteristic of this category 

of cases, that really most of them heard are pretty 
frivolous?

 MR. JORDAN:  Your Honor, a lot of them are. 

A lot of them are, and in fact there were two Anders 
briefs filed in this case.  To show how -- how weak his 
claims were, when he got the out-of-time appeal, he was 
appointed a new attorney and she filed an Anders brief. 
So you had two attorneys in this case who said --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  What strikes me about the 

case is we are fighting about the limitations and 
whether it applies and so forth; you probably could have 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

disposed of the whole litigation a lot faster by just 
looking at the merits for about ten minutes.

 MR. JORDAN:  I think that is exactly right, 
Justice Stevens.  But the procedural questions remain --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  This is all -- this is a 

product of Congress trying to save us all time.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. JORDAN:  Indeed.  This case, the 

underlying merits are, there basically are no merits to 
his underlying claims is a point we have fully briefed 
and I won't address here unless there are questions from 
the Court.  And unless there are further questions, 
I'm --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you Mr. 

Jordan.

 Mr. Goldstein, you have four minutes.
 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Thank you, sir.  A few short 

points.

 Justice Stevens, if later on you have an 
opportunity to look at footnote 15 on page 42 of the 
blue brief, we cite eight cases, and there are more, in 
which these out-of-time appeals really did find 
meritorious claims.  And I -- so I don't want the Court 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to be left with the impression that this is much ado 
about nothing.  The rule of law will actually be quite 
significant.

 Two small corrections to things my friend 

inadvertently said or impressions he may have 
inadvertently left.  He says there are 19 States that 
have no statute of limitations, but that omits the very 
many of those States that apply laches, and the fact 
that the State of Texas here did not assert the 
untimeliness of the State post-conviction proceeding is 
pretty much I think why we are ultimately here.

 He also said that there is only one State 
opinion finding laches, as if, I think, to create the 
impression that Texas courts don't take laches 
seriously.  Most of these are disposed of without 
opinions.  But the more relevant important is that there 
aren't Texas State opinions rejecting claims of laches. 
What the Texas courts have made is that the Texas A.G.'s 
office has to assert the defense of laches, as is true 
everywhere and is true in this Court's jurisprudence as 
well.

 The final two points I wanted to make are 

about (d)(1)(B) and (d)(2), all of which, I think 
honestly reduced to Justice Kennedy's point, is that the 
relevant provision is (d)(1), whatever else is going on 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

in the case.  But Justice Scalia and the Chief Justice 
came back to the point about whether this is an 
impediment, and my friend kept answering it is State 
action, and the Court would say, but is it an 
impediment?

 And at page 20 of our reply brief we must 

cite eight or ten cases, three of which notably are from 
Texas; there were litigated by the Texas Attorney 
General's office, that make it clear that the failure to 
give the notice of the opinion is not an impediment to 
filing post-conviction review, and the Court would be 
rewriting a lot of habeas corpus law to rule for the 
State of Texas here.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What about -- he 

cited most prominently the Evitts case.

 MR. JORDAN:  That's a State action, but as 
the Court's questioning indication, the question is, is 
State action that is an impediment to filing a Federal 
habeas petition, and all of our cases answered that 
question.

 The final point is about (d)(2) and my 

friend says that this isn't like Lawrence v Florida, 
because here there is more proceedings.  But the Court's 
holding was this, and it was unambiguous:  When the 
post-conviction court enters its mandate, so that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

time to seek cert starts to run, that's when the 
post-conviction application is no longer pending; and 
when the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals decided the 
Petitioner's claim and said he had an out-of-time 
appeal, it issued its mandate and the mandate is in the 
joint appendix.  And somebody -- the State could have 
sought cert in that case, and the post-conviction 
application was no longer pending.

 And Mr. Chief Justice, you're right, you can 

the case on the basis of label or substance, but it is 
unambiguous that this is not post-conviction review in 
what we have been calling the second appeal.  Teague 
retroactivity does not apply; all the constitutional 
rights that are announced in the meantime apply; you 
have a right to a counsel; the usual standards of 
post-conviction relief in terms of having us show an 
extra layer of prejudice don't apply.

 This is just like any other appeal the Texas 
Court of Appeals and the courts of criminal appeal would 
decide and that makes it a (d)(1) case.

 Thank you very much.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 1:58 p.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

A 

abandoning 

34:1 

abandonment 

34:5 44:20 

able 12:19 35:5 
41:18,20 44:4 
44:23 45:7 

above-entitled 

1:15 54:25 
absence 48:1 
abuse 17:11 

abusive 27:24 

25:18 

28:7 

accept 30:9 
access 12:17,18 
accomplish 9:14 

acknowledged 

acknowledges 

10:1 

37:13 

35:17 

act 27:17 
acted 38:16 
action 11:22,24 

12:3 26:18 
53:4,16,18 

actual 14:2 24:4 

addition 14:18 

36:11 

15:6 

address 35:10 
35:11 36:22 
45:5 48:4,18 
51:11 

addressing 

13:19 

administer 

28:16 

admits 35:17 
ado 52:1 
AEDPA 6:23 

15:7,18 21:24 
26:25 27:20,21 
28:5,6 30:20 

agree 13:16 

24:11 

agreed 22:15 
alive 19:2 
allegation 24:21 

25:5 

allege 15:10 
allow 12:17 22:1 

27:15 28:9 
30:17 48:11 
allowed 40:10 
allows 18:10 
amounts 34:4,24 
analogy 25:4 
Anders 8:16 

35:9 50:9,18 
50:21 

and-a-half 

17:16 

announced 

54:14 

anomalous 

11:11 

anomaly 11:5 

17:24 

answer 5:19 

8:24 9:2 11:9 
19:23 25:18 

appeals 3:12,15 
5:8 8:4,10 9:19 
11:4 15:14,15 
18:19 22:4 
29:9,16 31:2 
51:24 54:3,19 

appear 10:9 

17:10 

answered 53:19  APPEARAN... 
answering 53:3 
answers 47:16 

appears 11:19 

1:18 

47:17 

anticipates 

14:3 16:15 
appendix 8:3 

42:2 

50:3 54:6 

applicable 38:8 

32:22 38:11 
appeal 3:11,12 
3:16 5:15 6:1 
6:11,11,15,17 
7:19,20 8:1,7 
8:15 9:20 10:6 
10:16 11:3 
12:2 13:7,13 
13:15,24 15:11 
15:19 17:5 
18:11 19:11,13 
19:16,18,19 
20:22,23 21:17  applications 
21:19 22:8,9 
22:10,13 23:7 

3:24 4:18 5:8 
11:1,2,6,21 
12:4,6,20 13:3 
15:4 16:17 
20:9,16 21:16 
23:10,22 44:6 
54:2,8 

applied 14:24 

14:14,22 

attaches 32:9

27:13 33:22,23  attaching 43:22
40:3,5 46:15 
50:25 

attempt 12:4
attempted 41:11

41:11,14
attempting

42:14

attorney 35:9
42:16 50:21
53:8

attorneys 50:22
Austin 1:21

applies 7:13 

23:14 24:1,3 
24:10,12 25:10 
26:13 27:12 
28:19 29:2,6 
29:21 30:13,16  apply 3:24 9:13 
9:15,16 10:24 
31:12 32:6 
11:10,15,17 
33:6,10 34:1,3 
13:9 16:17 
35:18 36:12 
38:3,5,6,12,18 
26:20 30:1 
41:23 45:20 
38:19 39:9,24 
48:2 52:8 
40:1,6,8,10,11 
40:13,16 41:7 
54:13,14,17 
43:1,11,23 
44:22 45:10,21  appropriate 
46:13,20,25 
17:20 26:22 
47:7,9 48:10 
48:12 49:7 
50:20 54:5,12 
54:18,19 

argue 13:1 
arguing 11:12 
argument 1:16 

appointed 50:21  authority 18:7
available 17:8,9
avoid 28:7
avoiding 27:24
awarded 4:25

26:14

awarding 31:6

2:2,7 3:4,6 
6:10 10:18,18  A.G 52:18
10:20 17:19
B
26:3 43:14,25
48:8 51:17
arisen 20:11
arises 11:5

b 8:20 9:1,5,12 
11:6,10,12,17
11:19 12:6
22:22 33:14,18
33:22,22 35:2 
35:2,14,16,22
41:3,20 42:3 
43:4 44:2,9,10
45:13 46:1,2
46:15 47:20
48:1 52:23

back 10:12,23

14:6,11 19:17 
22:5 45:12
49:19 53:2
background

8:13

based 36:13

47:16

basic 50:8
basically 51:9
basis 13:8 54:10 
began 48:7
begins 19:14
21:22 43:5

17:24 24:19
25:12,22

article 18:13,17
aside 18:10
asking 39:11
asks 37:25
aspects 30:2
assert 15:3 31:7 

36:6 52:9,19
asserted 36:11

25:5 28:18
29:20 30:19
33:25 34:24
35:4,7 45:21 
47:6

assuming 9:13

40:15 41:9
attach 33:2
attached 27:8

applicant 11:23 
application 3:20  asserting 36:15
assistance 13:4

45:25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Circuit 4:12 5:3 
5:21 7:4 10:21 
49:6 

19:5,7 22:3 
25:21 28:21 
32:24 41:17 
42:18,18 44:19  Circuit's 4:23 
47:12 49:3,4,9 
50:15 51:23 
53:7,19 

circumstance 

41:22 

5:5 

category 50:14 
causal 35:3 45:6 
cause 17:13 

22:10 

circumstances 
29:15 33:15 
35:13 41:16 
46:4 

caused 35:5 45:2  cite 18:7 34:10 
cell 42:10 
cert 37:8,8 54:1 

51:23 53:7 

cited 34:17,18 
34:19,20 36:8 
36:9 53:15 

claim 4:20 12:23 

13:4,6,23 
15:11,12,17 
17:4,4,6,12 
20:2,5,9 25:7 
30:19 33:10 
39:23 45:9,10 
45:23 46:15 
54:4 

54:7 

Certainly 28:4 
challenge 23:5 
24:3 39:21,25 

challenging 
23:17,24,24 
24:2 

chance 31:6 
change 31:1 

characteristic 

32:7 

50:14 

Chief 3:3,8 5:13 

claims 8:6 12:23 

13:2,2 20:15 
21:25 26:9 
28:1,8,9,11 
31:7 32:6 45:9 
45:11 46:16 
47:14 49:20 
50:8,20 51:10 
51:25 52:17 
claim-specific 

5:18,24 6:19 
7:2 10:13,20 
12:7 13:10 
14:15 21:23 
22:4 23:3,9,11 
23:23 24:8,20 
25:14,21 26:1 
26:5 30:6 
32:12,18 34:9 
34:13 39:14,18  clarification 
40:4 44:12,18 
46:7 47:15 
48:3,6 51:14 
53:1,14 54:9 
54:22 

clear 11:17 

45:20 

16:7 

collateral 4:19

5:16 6:2,2
10:16 13:13,15
24:9 30:18
37:18 39:7,12

combination

47:19

come 14:11

21:11 47:13
48:7 49:10,19

comes 24:22
40:14 43:4
48:6

coming 31:4

49:6

comity 28:5

30:24

commencement

commitment

commonplace

29:1

26:7

22:7

competent 12:9
concern 9:6,11
14:12,16 19:1 
26:25

concerned 8:7

18:25 28:3
48:24

conclude 12:1
concludes 14:8

19:11

conclusion 4:4
7:19 8:1 16:4 
22:19 23:20
24:5 27:4,14
32:18,25
confidence

C 

C 1:19 2:1,3,8 

3:1,6 7:8 22:23 
41:3 51:17 

calculated 31:20 
California 37:14 
call 6:10 13:11 

30:17,18
called 4:13 
calling 43:22 

54:12 

calls 30:12 
candy 15:13 
capital 18:25 

19:4 

38:7 

Carey 37:12,13

CARLOS 1:3 
Carolina 13:22 
Carrio 36:9 
case 3:4,10,13

3:17 4:8,10,12
4:13,15,24
6:24 7:1,5,8,14
7:22 8:4,4,14
8:21 9:1,7,7,17
10:22 14:2,12
16:24 20:11 
22:7,22 23:19 
23:20 25:13 
33:4,23 34:9 
34:16,20 35:7 
36:7,8,10,25
37:11 38:15 
42:14 43:17 
45:2,19 46:4 
46:11 47:21 
48:8 49:4,5,10
49:23,23 50:5 
50:6,19,22,24
51:8 53:1,15
54:7,10,20,23
54:24 

begs 27:10 
behalf 1:19,22 

2:4,6,9 3:7 
26:4 51:18 
believe 5:10 
18:16 20:10 
benefit 48:13 
better 4:24 
beyond 4:8 

33:15 

biased 13:5 20:5 
blue 3:22 4:16 
11:19 51:23 

blundered 33:8 
body 25:21 
bong 19:14,19 
bottom 11:19 

46:16 

Breyer 19:12,24 

20:3,7,12,17 
21:2,5,9,10 
31:10,16 42:22 
43:16,20 44:7 
44:9,11 45:16 
46:6 

Breyer's 22:8 
brief 3:22 4:16 

8:16 9:21 
11:20,25 13:19 
18:8 29:22,24 
29:24 34:18,19 
34:21 35:9 
36:8,9 45:21 
48:5,19 50:9 
50:21 51:23 
53:6 

briefed 51:10 
briefs 34:17 

bring 18:3 28:17 

50:19 

45:11 

broad 9:6 
broaden 12:6 
brought 21:25 

49:21 

built 17:21 
business 30:15 

21:13

clearly 7:23 
21:25 23:1 
36:18 

17:24,25 20:21 
22:12,15 53:9  Congress 5:10
6:25 7:5,11,18
8:7 10:2 11:7 
14:16 21:20,24
22:16,20 23:1 
27:2,7 32:8,24 
33:12 35:20

client 17:15 
cold 33:9 
Coleman 34:21 

caselaw 18:20 
cases 6:7 8:11 
15:9,23 18:23 
18:24,25 19:2 

choose 30:17 

48:10 

chooses 13:11 
18:5 47:24 
chosen 27:15 

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

41:3 46:17 
48:23,24 51:6 
Congress's 26:7 
connection 35:3 

consequence 

45:6 

16:5 

corpus 3:20,25 
9:23 10:4 12:4 
12:20 13:3 
17:7 20:1,16 
21:21 23:18 
53:12 

correct 10:17,25 

8:24 

43:17 

consider 5:15 

considered 3:16 

consistently 
27:24 34:22 

17:3 29:18 
32:16 36:5 
39:5,17 40:7 
40:18 43:16 
44:17 48:3,15 
49:16 50:7,10 
constantly 15:15  CORRECTI... 
Constitution 
11:22 24:14 
constitutional 

corrections 52:4 
correctly 47:16 
counsel 12:9 

1:9 

13:5 25:6,10 
26:1 28:19 
29:20 30:19 
33:8,25 34:4 
34:23 35:4,7 
41:6 44:13,14 
44:20,21 45:4 
45:21 46:13 
47:6,9 54:15 
54:22 

count 10:14 

13:14 30:21 
34:11 37:9 
40:6,8 43:11 
counted 4:21 

39:2,3 

counterpart 

41:25 

8:6 12:9 23:15 
24:4,17,18,18 
25:8,9,12,15 
54:13 

constitutionally 

25:9 33:24 
constructive 
34:23 44:20 

contact 41:11,15 
contemplated 

23:1 

context 42:1 
continuance 

continuation 

37:19 

43:13 

continue 38:10 
continues 10:24 
contrary 7:22 
control 30:12 

33:16 

controlling 

14:19 

convicted 31:12 

49:14 

convicting 12:8 
conviction 18:10 

23:24 24:4,5 
34:7,25 44:24 

convicts 48:9 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

16:16,18,19,21 
16:23,25 17:2 
17:10,11,13,17 
18:3,24 19:8 
19:10 20:24 
21:18,21 22:9 
23:6,12,25 
24:10,16,24 
25:7,24 26:6 
27:23 28:9,16 
31:7,21,23 
32:4 34:22 
35:10,11 36:1 
37:6,6,8,10,13 
37:13,15,16,16 
37:21 38:21 
39:7 41:12,15 
41:23 42:1 
43:7,8,8 45:4,5 
45:23 46:13 
48:19 50:4,5 
51:12,25 53:4 
53:11,25 54:3 
54:19 

courts 3:10 7:14 
10:7,11 11:16 
11:25 12:13,14 
17:25 21:15 
25:11 28:10,15 
29:25 37:5 
38:9 49:10,20 
52:14,18 54:19 
court's 7:22 8:8 

17:23 22:18 
34:2 36:25 
37:3,12 38:7 
44:18 52:20 
53:17,23 

15:14 25:1,13 
31:11 47:2 
54:3,19 

curiosity 19:13 
custody 3:25 

D

d 1:21 2:5 3:1 
4:15 5:12,20
7:8,12 8:20 9:1 
9:5,13 10:24 
11:6,10,12,17
12:21 13:2,9
14:7 16:16,23
22:23 26:3
27:2,8,13
28:13 31:8
32:8 33:14,19
33:22,22 35:2 
35:2,14,16,22
36:22,24,24
37:24 38:14
40:2,5,12 41:3 
41:20 42:3
44:7,9,10,11
45:7,7,8,10,12
45:19,19,24
46:1,14,14,15
47:19,19,20,20
48:1,1,1 52:23 
52:23,25 53:21 
54:20

data 50:3
date 4:3 6:14 

7:12 8:22 9:16 
10:8 11:20,20
12:22 13:9
26:13 27:3,8
27:15 30:4
31:21 32:7,9
32:15 35:2,15
35:16,17,18,23
36:19,19 44:5 
45:7 46:14,21
47:2 48:14,17
dates 4:3 7:4,12 

11:15 23:2

28:23 29:5 
33:15 

day 26:16,17 
days 22:14,14 
23:1 29:7,8 
47:3 

deadline 12:22 

19:3 22:14 

deadlines 29:6 

47:8 

deal 9:9 12:16 

14:4,11

decide 3:13 7:21 

13:25 54:20 
decided 3:12 

4:12 5:3,4 8:4 
15:3 27:16 
31:11 54:3 
decides 32:1 
decision 6:5 
23:14 26:22 
32:4 37:1,3,12
44:18 48:24 

decisions 12:15 

49:15 

defeat 38:15 
defendant 12:1 
12:8 15:9 22:7 
31:12 

defendants 9:8 
14:13 15:16,23
18:22 19:1 
25:1 

defendant's 

15:15 

defendant-fav... 

9:24 11:12 
defense 36:6 

52:19 

defer 9:16 
deferred 9:23 

10:3,8

degree 44:21 
Delaware 13:22 
delay 15:24 19:7 

27:25 

delays 26:8 28:7 

covered 4:15 

couple 29:11 
course 22:4 29:2 
court 1:1,16 3:9 
3:12,14 4:1,25 
5:11 14:7 
5:4,7,7 7:17,21  create 24:17 
7:23,25 8:3,4,9 
8:10 9:18,25 
10:10 11:2,4 
12:15 13:25 
14:12,15 15:14 
15:20 16:2,3 

created 11:21 
12:3 44:15 
criminal 1:8 

3:15 5:7 8:10 
8:11 11:4 

52:13 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

31:18 

due-process 

23:7,13,20 
dramatic 17:15 
24:1,3,6,9,10 
24:11,17,19,23  due 12:24 44:25 
27:4,5,6,12 
28:17 29:1,6 
30:13,16 32:6 
32:10,14,19,25  D.C 1:12,19 
33:9 34:3 36:2 
40:6 43:11,23 
48:10,12 

duplicate 32:5 

34:7 

E

deliver 12:20 
denial 34:23 
44:20 45:10 

denied 3:15 13:7 

16:1,2 17:5 
20:22 21:17 
24:3,11 36:13 

denies 8:11 

16:22 

DEPARTME... 

1:8 

24:21 

depends 19:23 
deprived 11:3 
13:23 15:10 
Deputy 1:21 
despite 12:8 

17:25 

determination 

19:9 23:5 
24:13 30:10 

depend 5:14,17 

50:4 

directly 9:4,12 

DIRECTOR 1:7 
direct-appeal 

27:12 

disagree 33:21 

33:21 

discovered 

12:24 

discovers 19:15 
discretion 17:11 
discretionary 

determine 30:3 
developed 18:19  discuss 9:6 
difference 5:25 

dismissal 6:14 

3:14 

6:8 29:4,21 
31:17 47:17 
different 7:3 
30:2 31:25 
37:2 47:22 

difficult 28:15 

difficulty 43:20 
diligence 12:24 

35:1 

48:1 

diligent 36:18 
39:4 41:11,18 
42:9,9,13 
49:21 

6:17 15:19 
16:8,10,15 
23:21 33:7 

dismissed 8:15 

9:19 12:2 
20:21,25 47:1 
dispose 16:20,20 
disposed 51:1 

52:15 

disposes 5:5 
disposition 7:7 

dispute 13:11 

7:22 

34:14 

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 49:22
early 18:10
easier 12:21
easy 29:25
effect 26:23 27:9 
effective 25:10
effectively 44:21
efforts 25:11
eight 51:23 53:7 
either 8:25 27:3 

33:8 42:15
elide 21:24
ends 27:4
enforcing 27:20

27:20

enlightened

46:8

enters 53:25
entire 40:13
entirely 21:17
envisioned 7:6
equal 25:2
equitable 41:23
erroneously

error 29:16
ESQ 1:19,21 2:3 

established 7:23

9:19

2:5,8

7:23

27:14 29:17 
43:15 45:18 
51:3 

example 12:17 
29:20 33:23 
45:2 46:12 
49:4 

examples 29:11 

29:14 

exceptions 
33:13 41:2 
excuse 30:11 

47:25 

excuses 47:23 
exercisable 

27:13 

exercise 12:24 
exercised 14:3 
exhaust 17:8 

20:25 

exhausted 17:4 

20:15,21,24 
37:4 

expeditiously 

22:17,17 

expiration 4:5 
27:5 32:9,14 
32:20 33:1 

expire 7:9 
expired 36:21 
expires 19:14 
explain 5:21 9:4 

9:10,15 25:4 

explained 11:25 

33:18 

extent 33:25 
extenuating 

33:15 

extra 54:17 

F

fact 8:14 9:7 

10:5 12:8
17:24,25 20:25 
22:23 24:2,15
25:16 26:16
41:5 45:1

49:11 50:18 
52:8 

facts 9:17 12:5 

42:6 

factual 4:14 
5:11 12:22 
failed 35:18 

46:20 

failure 12:1,10
20:25 23:25 
44:14 53:9 
faith 43:21 
fall 41:20 43:13 
far 28:15 
fashion 30:23 
faster 51:1 
fault 46:22 
federal 3:20 

6:17,20 7:17 
7:21,25 8:5,8 
9:22 10:4,10
12:4 13:3 
16:23 17:1,7
17:10 19:15 
20:1,16,24
21:15,20,25
23:15,16,18 
24:14 25:11,19
26:8,12 27:2 
27:23,25 28:8 
28:10,15,20
29:25 30:7,16
31:14 35:6 
36:16,16,20
38:21 40:11 
43:7 45:11 
48:17,18 49:19 
53:18 

feel 17:22 
fell 41:2 
fellow 23:12 
felons 49:14 
Fifth 4:12,23 5:3 

5:5,21 7:4 
10:21 

fighting 50:24 
file 3:20 9:20 

district 7:21,25 

direct 3:11,13 
4:5 5:1,15 6:1 
7:14 9:20 10:6 
10:12,15 13:13 
13:20,24 14:6 
14:8,8 17:5 
18:19 19:18,19  Dodd 41:24 
doubt 20:12 
21:6 22:18,19 

8:8 10:10 
16:23 17:10,11 
20:24 21:21 
49:10 

DIVISION 1:10 

events 32:22
everybody's 

43:22 

Evitts 34:17 
44:19 53:15 

Ex 36:8 
exactly 10:20 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

10:4 12:19 
14:21 19:19 
20:22 21:16 
22:7,10 30:20 
35:6 37:15 
38:9 40:20,23 
44:5 47:3 

filed 3:13 4:18 

8:16 16:17 
33:7 38:16 
50:9,19,21 

files 19:15 20:1 
37:22 40:16 
43:9 

filing 6:23 11:21 

11:24 12:3 
14:13 22:14 
26:8 27:25 
28:8 29:21,22 
53:11,18 

final 3:18 4:4 
6:4,5 16:9 
18:21 19:11 
30:21 32:15,17 
47:24 52:22 
53:21 

finality 13:14 
27:3,3,8 28:5 
28:20 30:25 
32:7 33:2 
48:14,17 

find 33:5,6,7 

41:4,6,19 42:6 
42:14 44:4 
51:24 

finding 33:24 

52:13 

finds 46:25 
finish 7:14 19:19 
finishes 42:25 
finishing 22:19 
first 4:3 6:17 7:7 

8:15 9:4,19 
14:20 15:19 
16:8,15 19:20 
20:1,8,17 
22:22 23:21,24 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

39:11,15,15,19 
41:9 43:2,3 
48:23 
fit 8:20 
fits 9:1 
five 23:5 43:2 
47:13 49:5 

flaw 24:4 
Florida 5:4 37:5 

53:22 

following 9:14 
footnote 13:19 

51:22 

force 15:8 38:8 
forget 21:10 
form 30:11 

33:13 

forth 22:5 50:25 
found 8:17,22 

9:21 14:2 33:4 
41:15 

15:22 18:17 
General's 53:9 
generous 9:24 

48:9 

genuinely 29:9 
getting 35:2 
gimmick 44:3 
Ginsburg 8:13 

53:12,19 
half 8:18,23 

18:12,16 19:22 
19:25 20:4,8 
20:14,20 21:4 
21:8,12 22:3 
23:8,17 24:2 
hallmarks 13:20 
24:15 25:3,20 
33:17 51:16,17  handle 5:22 19:7 
happened 21:14 
51:19 

24:22 35:19,23 
36:3 46:19 
49:25 

9:3 11:8 14:10  good 17:13 
18:2,8 33:3,12 
33:17 35:25 
46:23 

gotten 46:12 
governed 5:23 

22:10 45:2,16 

35:6 37:21 
42:14,15 
happening 

37:20 

give 8:22 12:1 

6:9 

15:13 23:13,25  governs 3:21 
grant 23:4,6 
24:23,25 25:1 
25:4 29:11 
31:11 32:1,4 
35:16,21 36:2 
38:2 39:23,24 
53:10 

granting 15:5 
grapple 12:5 

granted 6:11 

24:9 40:9 

25:17 

happens 19:12 

21:14,15 23:16 
27:7 49:3 

hardest 43:24 
hear 3:3 28:10 
heard 28:9 

50:15 

hearing 49:20 
given 26:16 41:5  grappling 12:15  held 10:21 11:1 
giving 9:20 21:6  gravamen 41:7 

higher 37:16 
great 14:22 15:9  highest 8:10 
greater 38:8 
holding 53:24 
honestly 52:24 
greatest 50:12 
gripe 27:16 
Honor 27:1 

four 4:3 5:2 7:3 
8:17,23 17:16 
25:2 31:17 
24:22 35:18,23  go 4:8 7:17 
16:23 17:1 
36:2 46:19 
22:5 31:14 
49:25 51:16 
Fourth 49:6 
37:6 40:9 43:7  guess 5:24 19:9 
Frasch 49:5 
45:12 
free 5:15 
freely 25:17 
friend 34:10 

25:14 26:21 
31:13 
H

going 7:20 15:10 

goes 19:16,17 

43:8,8 

52:4 53:3,22 
friends 10:15 
friend's 30:10 

47:16 

frivolous 50:16 
fully 51:10 
further 5:1 

25:24 39:12 
51:12 

G 

G 3:1 
game 40:25 
gather 10:14 

24:9 

general 1:21 

15:12 21:11 
22:10 23:13 
24:25 26:16 
27:11,11 28:20 
28:22 29:25 
30:25 32:13,25 
33:1 37:17 
39:8 41:18 
42:12 52:25 
Goldstein 1:19 
2:3,8 3:5,6,8 
4:9 5:17 6:7,24 
7:3 8:14 9:2 
10:17 12:12 
13:17 16:6,13
17:3,18 18:6 

habeas 3:20,25

9:23 10:4
11:13 12:4,20
13:3 17:7
19:15,20,21
20:1,9,16
21:21 23:16,18
25:11,19 26:8 
27:25 28:8
31:14 35:6
36:12 37:15,22
37:22,25 38:13 
39:11,15,15,19 
39:21 40:9,21 
43:10,10,12,13 
43:24 45:11 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

30:23 31:15 
32:3,16,22 
33:20 34:15 
36:5 39:6,17
40:8,18,23
41:1,8,21 42:7 
47:4 48:15 
50:17 

hypothetical

16:22 20:2,23
21:8,10 22:9 
23:9 24:19 
25:15 41:10 
42:20 
I
idea 43:6
identical 29:2
identifies 4:3
illustrate 8:2
impediment

impression 52:1 

16:13 

11:21 12:3,13 
12:15,16 34:11

42:4,5 44:5,15

45:1 53:3,5,10 
53:18 

implicated 

25:23 35:14 
45:22,24 
implication 
38:23 39:1 
importance 

32:21 35:20 

important 14:25 

28:5,6 36:23 
52:16 

imposed 31:21 

49:1 

52:14 

impressions 

52:5 

imputed 34:5 

35:1 44:14,22 
inadvertently 

52:5,6


incentive 15:20 

15:24 18:23 
48:20 

incentives 49:12 
include 7:19 
including 6:8 
independent 

26:25 27:19,23 
indicated 14:16 
indication 53:17 
indisputably 

3:18 

ineffective 13:4 

25:5 28:18 
29:20 30:19 
33:25 35:4,7 
45:20 47:6 

ineffectiveness 

34:4 45:4 
46:13 47:9 
initial 29:6 
inmate 31:6 

37:14 48:21,25 
49:2,11 

inmate's 33:15 

34:7 

instance 42:23 
instituted 16:7 

institutes 16:11 
instituting 15:24 

19:4 

1:10 

INSTITUTIO... 

intelligent 49:15 
intend 26:10 
intended 11:7 
15:2 35:21 
46:17 

interest 27:19 
27:23 31:9 
interests 28:3 

30:25 

interplay 46:9 
interpretation 

31:8 

interpreted 

46:18 

interpreting 
28:13 41:25 

interprets 28:17 
invoked 35:22 
issue 4:13 
issued 8:9 11:4 

54:5 

issues 5:8 31:22 

J 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

54:6 

32:5 34:1 35:5  Jimenez 1:3 3:4 
Johnson 50:4,5 
35:8,9,12,22 
joint 8:3 50:3 
36:17,18 37:4 
37:17,22 38:4 
38:16 39:12 
40:1 41:10,18 
44:24,25 45:3 
46:12,19 47:12 
47:13 49:5,7,7 
49:21,24 50:2 
inmates 26:11 

laches 14:25

46:20 
L

45:3 46:16

50:2


label 13:11,14
47:24 48:10
54:10 

22:4,8 23:3,9 
23:11,23 24:8 
24:20 25:14,21  knowledge 
26:1,5,15 27:9 
43:18 47:3 
knows 21:2,5 
27:22 28:2,4 
28:12,24 29:5 
29:13,18 30:6 
31:10,16 32:12 
32:18 33:3,11 
33:17 34:9,13 
35:25 38:22,25 
39:14,18 40:4 
40:15,19,22,25 
41:4,13 42:3 
42:11,19,22 
43:16,20 44:1 
44:7,8,9,10,11 
44:12,18 45:8 
45:16,19 46:2 
46:6,7,7,22,23 
46:23 47:2,15 
48:4,6 49:14 
50:7,10,11,23 
51:4,5,14,21

52:24 53:1,1 
53:14 54:9,22 

law 7:23 31:1 

32:11 37:24 

17:21 18:1,2
19:6 36:6,11
36:15 52:8,13 
52:14,17,19 

late 14:14 22:11 
22:14,14 29:16 
latest 4:2 22:25 
Laughter 45:15

lack 35:8 
language 13:18 

51:7

37:14 50:2
52:2 53:12

K 

keep 19:1 44:24 
Kennedy 4:7,10 

8:25 17:1,14 
17:18 18:9,12 
18:14 38:22,25 
Kennedy's 5:19 

52:24 

kept 34:6 53:3 
kind 6:5 21:24 

43:22 

knew 35:17 
know 6:11 7:4 
7:24,24 8:14 
8:16 15:14,16 
22:9,20 23:12 
28:7 29:14 
30:18,20 31:13 
35:12 38:9 
42:15,17 43:1 

Lawrence 5:4,5
5:6 10:18,19 
11:1 37:1,2,3
38:14 53:22

laws 11:22
lawyer 8:16 
19:13 21:18
43:3 50:9 
layer 54:17
leads 6:6 47:22 
leap 43:21
learned 43:3,9 
learns 43:2
leave 30:6,8
led 29:16
left 16:23 37:6 

52:1,6

legal 12:18
legislature 32:1
legitimate 49:25

Jordan 1:21 2:5 
26:2,3,5 27:1 
27:22 28:4 
29:4,18 30:22 
31:15 32:3,16 
32:20 33:11,20 
34:12,15 36:5 
38:24 39:5,17 
39:19 40:7,17 
40:20,23 41:1 
41:8,14 42:7 
42:12,21 43:15 
43:19 44:17 
45:18 46:3,9 
47:4 48:3,15 
49:16 50:10,17 
51:3,8,15 
53:16 

judge 13:5 20:5 
judgment 3:18 
4:1,4,20 16:9 
19:10,10 20:10 
23:19 30:21 
32:15 35:11 
37:18,23,25 
38:1,3,6,11 
39:13,22,25 
40:2 45:5 

jurisprudence 
36:11 52:20 

justice 1:9 3:3,8 
4:7,9 5:13,18 
5:19,24 6:19 
7:2 8:13,25 9:3 
10:13,20 11:8 
12:7 13:10 
14:10,15 16:1 
16:11 17:1,14 
17:18 18:2,8,9 
18:12,14,21 
19:12,24 20:3 
20:7,12,17
21:2,5,8,10,23 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

light 10:19 
limitation 3:24 
4:2,21 22:25

26:13 46:24 
49:1 

limitations 3:20 

6:21 14:20 
15:2,7,8 18:1 
26:10 36:16 
40:12 47:10 
50:24 52:7 
limits 31:20 
line 46:16 
linear 7:6 
literally 12:14 
litigated 53:8 
litigation 51:1 
logic 5:5 
logical 8:11 
logically 4:15 

21:22 

long 26:19,24 

27:18,18


longer 5:9 11:3 
28:20 34:16 
54:2,8 

look 8:20 13:18 

18:22 30:1 
31:3 34:16 
37:21 39:20,20 
51:22 

looked 41:16 

42:17 

looking 4:24 

lose 15:12 23:10 

51:2 

37:14 

loses 40:13 
lost 12:10 38:20 
lot 41:16 42:17 
50:17,18 51:1

53:12 

lower 11:16,25 

12:14,15 37:15 

Lucey 34:17 

44:19 

M 
mails 12:18

majority 14:23 

15:9 29:7,8 

man 19:17 
mandate 5:8 
11:5 31:21 
53:25 54:5,5 
manner 28:14 
matter 1:15 6:20 

16:21 26:18 
30:10 49:3,12
54:25 

mean 5:25 6:20 

10:14 20:12 
25:17 28:10,25
29:14 31:11 
39:15 40:5,17
41:16 42:20 
49:19 

means 28:19 
34:6 38:15

47:12 48:11 

meant 32:5 
measure 35:15 
measured 23:21 
meritorious 

merits 50:8 51:2 

51:25 

51:9,9 

minutes 51:2,16 
mistake 21:6 
moment 9:13 
months 9:18,23 
10:8 16:14,14 
16:19,23 
move 18:24 

22:16,17

moving 14:16 
multiple 9:8


23:2 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
narrow 25:22 
NATHANIEL 

1:6 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

natural 32:10,23  object 15:4 
obtain 26:12 
nature 30:2 
necessarily 

46:21

10:5 

November 1:13 
number 14:23 

notwithstandi...  out-of-time
26:13 29:9
31:2 38:2,5,5 
38:12,18,19 
39:9,24 40:1,8 
40:10,11,13
49:7 50:20 
51:24 54:4

47:5,7 
O 
O 2:1 3:1 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

33:11 

need 4:8 28:10 
34:16,16 35:3 
45:25 

needs 42:9 
negative 38:23 

39:1 

negligent 17:16 
never 20:13 
21:11 33:9 

new 24:18 25:15 
26:12 30:4,21 
35:16 46:21 
48:13 50:21 

non-capital 

15:23 18:23 
19:7 48:21,25 
49:2,7,11 

non-diligence 

47:23,25 

non-diligent 
46:19 47:21 
48:13 

normal 29:2 
notably 53:7 
noted 34:21 

45:21 

29:21 35:8 
41:5,5 47:1 
53:10 

notification 
12:11 43:4 
noting 35:14 
notion 15:22 

46:16 

obtained 38:17
obtains 34:25

40:1

Obviously 48:24
occurring 32:23
office 52:19 53:9 
Oh 10:13 21:10 

44:10

Okay 9:2 16:13 

27:11 31:16
39:18

omits 52:7
one-year 3:19
9:22 15:8,18
22:2 26:10,19
35:21 49:1

opening 29:24
operates 16:24
opinion 8:3,9
17:23 52:13
53:10

opinions 52:16

52:17

opportunity
9:20 47:24
51:22

opposite 19:1

oral 1:15 2:2 3:6 

26:3

order 12:19
original 6:15

16:4,10 23:18 
25:8,13 37:16 

ought 27:17

29:17

notice 12:2 22:8 

34:11

overly 48:9 
override 19:9

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 3:22 

4:16 8:3 11:19 
51:22 53:6
pages 29:24

34:18,19 50:3 
part 5:2,15 6:2 

10:16 11:9
35:1 43:23,24

parte 36:9
particular 39:23

46:11
parts 9:3
passes 43:1
patchwork

28:22,25 29:3 

Peguese 49:5
penalizing 12:8
pending 4:20

5:9 11:4 23:22 
37:19 39:2,3,7
39:10,10 54:2 
54:8

period 3:24 4:2 
4:21 7:6 8:12 
10:15 15:7,8
22:25 23:22
26:10,23 27:4 
35:21 36:16,20
40:12 46:24

person 3:25
pertinent 4:20
37:23,24 38:1 
38:3

petition 3:14
37:8,8,22,22
37:25 38:17
39:11,15,16,20
39:21 53:19 

petitioner 1:4,20 
2:4,9 3:7 6:15 
7:15 11:13
15:5 16:15

Official - Subject to Final Review 

28:14 51:18 

Petitioner's 3:11 
8:5 9:19 29:24 
34:18 36:9 
54:4 

picking 7:12 
place 17:6,20 
plain 4:10 14:9 

24:7,16 25:7 
26:12 31:5 
35:19 37:4,10 
38:17 46:21 
49:8 52:10 
53:11,25 54:2 
54:7,11,16 
power 13:25 

plainly 14:7 

practical 49:3 

14:3 

49:12 

14:18 

17:12 

46:11 

42:24 

play 43:5 46:3 

please 3:9 26:6 

point 9:10,12 
11:9 14:25 
16:7,16 18:21 
19:3 21:24 
presumably 
28:12 29:23 
23:5 42:7 
33:2 36:23 
pretty 11:25 
43:4 45:17 
48:4,19 49:2 
50:15 52:11 
49:18,24 51:10  prevail 15:17 
52:24 53:2,21 

17:14 

processes 22:1 
precedent 34:2 
predicate 12:23  product 51:6 
prejudice 54:17  prominently 
prescribes 3:23 
present 33:9 
presented 3:17 
7:1 12:23 13:3 
45:9 

20:15,17,18,19 
20:20 41:5 
properly 4:18 

proper 6:12 

53:15 

38:13 39:24 
43:24 52:10 
proceedings 
24:22 53:23 
process 5:2,16 
6:2,3,5 7:16 
10:16 13:15 
14:17 27:14 
37:17 38:12 
39:9 40:14 
44:25 

16:17 

proposition 5:14 
prospect 9:8 
14:13 19:7 
protect 15:2 

31:8 

provided 33:13 

41:2 46:14 
49:24 50:1 

provision 4:17 
4:17 5:23 13:1 
52:25 

provisions 5:12 

7:9 33:18 
41:25 46:10 
47:18 

purpose 6:20 

28:6 

28:5 31:19 
pursuant 4:1 

54:24 
Q

3:4

Quarterman 1:6

question 3:17,21

5:18,20 6:25 
9:3 19:22,25
22:17 27:10
37:7 53:17,20

questioning
11:14 53:17

questions 25:24

51:4,11,12
quickly 15:21
36:22 48:18

quite 12:14 14:7 

19:3 21:25
22:12,15 23:1 
52:2

R

R 3:1
raise 13:22

15:11 17:6,19
18:4,7 20:2 

raised 9:6 32:6 
raises 20:4
rationale 38:7
reach 5:18
read 47:18
reading 6:13

10:1 32:10,23
readings 11:12
real 15:8,23
reality 28:23
really 5:25 6:19 

13:1 42:14
50:15 51:24

reason 5:10 7:18 

12:25 14:25
15:1,6 18:17 
19:8 27:1 31:7 
33:12,22 39:10 
42:8 45:23
49:17,24,25
50:1

reasoning 44:23 
REBUTTAL 

2:7 51:17 

received 13:6 
receives 38:4 
receiving 39:12 
recharacterize 

25:6,12

recognize 19:6 

27:12 

recognized

22:20 27:24 
28:6 41:24 

recognizes 19:2 

42:2 

record 17:21 

39:20 

reduced 52:24 
reference 36:23 
referenced 13:2 
referred 45:9
reflected 26:9
regard 6:4,9,12

6:13

regarded 5:1
12:13 20:8
regime 18:18
reinstated 3:11

18:11 19:11
22:13

reinstating

15:15 18:19
reject 25:11
rejected 50:4
rejecting 52:17
related 24:6
relatively 25:22
relevant 52:16

52:25 

relief 4:25 10:22 

14:5 15:5
16:18,22 18:24 
19:4 25:17
39:23 45:22
46:12,21 54:16 

relies 47:18
rely 47:19 

points 14:20 
36:7 41:8 
48:22 51:20 
52:22 

prevented 11:24  protected 27:19 
preventing 26:7  protection 25:2 
principle 14:24 
provide 33:14 
principles 14:21 

47:8 49:4 

portion 38:13 
position 5:14 9:5  prison 12:17,18 

18:1 

9:24 10:21 
11:11 32:7 
46:17 48:16 

prisoner 10:2 

47:21 

prisoners 14:21 
possible 7:4 23:2  prisoner's 19:13 

27:20 

pro 9:21 50:1 

post-conviction  probably 42:15 

50:11,25 

problem 14:4,11 

28:13 44:1 
45:8 49:17 

4:19,25 5:2,7,9 
6:12,16 7:16 
10:11,23 11:2 
13:23,25 14:1 
14:14 15:3,11 
15:25 16:16,18  procedure 13:21 
16:19,21,25 
17:7,9 18:18 
19:4 21:16 
22:6 23:10,22 

18:18 

procedural 51:4  purposes 6:10 

proceeding 10:7  pursue 21:1,19 

13:12,20 16:4 
16:8 38:1,2,10  p.m 1:17 3:2 

40:10 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

remain 39:10 
40:12 51:4 
remainder 

remained 37:18 

25:25 

37:19 

remains 39:10 
remedies 17:8 
28:18 29:8,23 
31:3 47:6,9 
remedy 17:9 
24:16 29:19 
30:2,24 32:5 
38:13 43:10,12 

removal 44:15 
removed 11:23 

42:4,5 44:8 
reopen 43:11 
reply 13:19 18:8 

48:5,19 53:6 

report 6:12 
representative 

49:9 

representing 

11:13 

reproduced 

requirement 

requires 17:7 

3:21 

22:2 

42:4 

reserve 25:25 
resolve 4:8 5:20 

34:13 

resolved 8:5 

17:2 

resolves 4:10 
resources 12:19 
respect 4:20 9:5 

23:16 25:18 
respectfully 

33:21 

Respondent 

1:22 2:6 26:4 
response 41:9 
44:13 46:6 

responsibility 

30:25 

restarted 7:10 
result 6:1,6 

47:22 

resulted 35:8 
results 3:18 
retains 34:25 
retroactively 

rights 23:15 

42:2 

54:13 

retroactivity 

24:17 25:8,9 
34:8 48:21,25 
49:13,18 54:14 
ROBERTS 3:3 
5:13,24 6:19 
7:2 10:13 12:7 
13:10 21:23 
23:3,11,23 
24:8,20 25:14 
26:1 30:6 
32:12,18 34:9 
34:13 39:14,18 
40:4 44:12 
47:15 48:6 
51:14 53:14 
54:22 

review 3:13,14 
4:5,6,19 5:1,9 
5:16 6:2,3,16 
7:14 8:11 
10:11,12,16,23 
13:13,15,21,23 
14:1,6,8,8 
15:12,25 17:7 
17:10 21:7,21 
22:6,18,19 
23:20 24:6,7 
24:17,19,24 
rode 26:19 
26:12 27:4,5,6 
28:17 30:16,18  role 11:14 
31:5 32:10,14 
32:19,21,25 
33:1 35:19 
36:2 37:4,9,10 
37:18 38:1,3 
38:10 39:7,12 
40:2 49:8 
53:11 54:11 
reviewed 38:6 
reviewing 7:25 

rule 27:2,20 
28:20 29:1 
30:7 52:2 
53:12 

rules 31:19 
rulings 3:19 
run 4:2 7:7 

19:14 21:22 
22:25 26:16 
32:14 43:5 
54:1 

8:8 23:18 
37:23,24 

rewrite 48:17 
rewriting 53:12 
ride 26:19 
right 4:9 7:2 

8:19 10:14,20 
11:3 12:9,10 
12:25 13:7,24 
15:10 17:5 
19:16 20:22 
21:17 24:11 

running 26:23 

36:15 

runs 15:18 24:5 

S

s 2:1 3:1 50:2 

52:18

Saffold 37:12
Salinas 4:14,23

5:4,6 7:5 10:22 

satisfied 26:24

Official - Subject to Final Review 

25:9 27:13 
30:8 31:14 
40:16 41:13,13 
42:11,11,24 
45:5,18 51:3 
54:9,15 

save 51:6 
saying 11:2 

26:21 36:17 
38:22,25 39:8 
46:1 49:15 
says 4:17 5:6 

39:6 

sent 10:11,23 

14:5 45:5 

sentence 31:20 
September 

35:15 

seriously 13:1 

52:15 

8:20 22:9 
23:12,14 24:10 
24:13,23,24,25  serve 35:9 
27:11 29:25 
32:15,17 38:1 
39:23 52:6 
53:22 

51:19 

20:15 27:2 

set 14:23 18:10 

short 19:4 29:7 

Scalia 16:1,11 

shortest 27:20 

shows 20:23 
side 10:15 40:14 

54:16 

18:21 40:15,19  show 50:19 
40:22,25 41:4 
41:13 42:3,11 
42:19 44:1,8 
44:10 45:8,19 
46:2,7,22 
49:14 53:1 
scenario 4:14 

44:2 

significant 52:3 
similar 41:25 
simply 19:6 
sir 13:17 19:23 

5:11,22 22:12 

se 9:21 50:1 
SEAN 1:21 2:5 

26:3 

second 5:15 6:9 
6:11 7:19,19 
8:1,7 10:5 11:8 
13:13 15:6 
19:9,20 20:18 
24:10 28:12 
30:16 37:25 
47:24 49:2 
54:12 

section 3:23 
18:13 26:9 

see 39:21 
seek 35:19 46:20 

49:8 54:1 
seeking 4:5 
26:11 27:5 
32:21 33:1 

seeks 6:15 
seen 42:18 
sending 35:11 
sense 28:25 31:4 

51:19 

sit 42:10 48:21 

48:25 49:13,18 

sitting 16:24 
situation 12:16 

37:2 47:20 

situations 22:16 
six 16:14,14,22 

30:1 

small 52:4 
Solicitor 1:21 
somebody 54:6 
somewhat 31:3 

31:4 

sorry 4:13 36:12 

38:24 39:18 
40:4 

sort 5:15 43:21 

46:20 

sought 54:7 
Souter 26:15 

27:9,22 28:2,4 
28:12,24 29:5 
29:13,19 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

44:14,16,22,23  stuff 15:13 
stunningly 
45:23 46:12 
47:24 48:16 
52:9,10,12,17 
53:3,13,16,18 
54:6 

54:25 

17:15 

submitted 54:23 

substantive 20:4  Texas 1:7 3:10 
succeeding 

South 13:22 
speak 44:4 
speaks 44:4 
specific 11:9 
stale 28:9 49:20 
stand 46:7 
standards 54:15  States 1:1,16 
stark 29:4 
11:23 13:21 
start 6:14 7:4,12 
14:4,23,24 
15:13 21:15 
28:18 29:5,10 
29:19 30:9,11 
30:23 31:1,3 
41:24 46:24 
47:2,5,7,8,11 
48:11 50:5 
52:6,8 

7:12,16 8:12 
9:12,16 10:8 
11:14,20 13:8 
23:2 26:13,23 
29:3 30:4 
33:14 36:19,19 
46:14,21 

starting 8:21 

27:12 

starts 9:25 12:22 

16:16 32:14 
54:1 

State's 9:22 
10:21 15:7 
31:9 

statute 3:19,21 

4:16 6:21 
11:18 14:19 
18:9,11,20 
19:3 22:24 
26:20 27:7 
28:16 32:8 
33:13 36:17 
46:18 47:10 
48:17,18 52:7 

state 4:1,19,25 
6:15 7:13,15 
7:16,22 8:3 9:8 
10:2,11,24 
11:2,22,24 
12:3,7,25 
14:13,20,21 
15:3,9,11,20 
15:24 16:2,3 
16:18,18,19,21  staying 17:12 
16:25 17:6,8,9 
17:9,17,19 
18:4,6,9 19:16 
21:6 22:1,4,5 
22:18 23:4,12 
23:25 24:15 
26:17 27:18 
28:3,8 29:1 
30:3,12 33:8 
34:5,6,24 35:1 
35:17 36:1,3,6 
37:6,9 38:9,17 
39:6,7,15,19 
39:21 40:20 
42:16 43:8,8 
43:10,10,23 

stop 32:13 
stopped 7:6 
stops 10:25 
strain 31:8,10 
strange 20:14 
strict 26:9 35:21 

strikes 50:23 
strolls 17:17 
structure 22:22 
struggled 5:22 
stuck 15:18 

step 38:5 
Stevens 50:7,11 
50:23 51:4,5 
51:21 

49:1 

subsection 4:10 
4:15,22 12:6 

subsections 

33:14 

substance 13:18 

30:11 47:18 
54:10 

substantially 

12:6 

successful 13:12 

50:13 

30:19 

sufficient 25:18 
suggest 30:7 
suggesting 

25:16 

suggests 28:14 
suppose 16:1,2 
16:11 31:11 
33:5 50:13 

supposed 7:25 
supposes 25:15 
Supreme 1:1,16 

31:23 

sure 6:21 19:17 

23:8 30:8 
sustainable 

10:19 

switch 13:14 
system 10:24 

14:6 42:16,22 

systems 47:2 

T

T 2:1,1
take 6:3 9:8,25 

11:18 12:14
19:13 20:2
22:4 26:18
29:14 30:14

43:1,21 52:14 

21:13 

Tex 1:22 

third 15:22 

takes 16:19 
talking 36:14,15 

terms 4:11 
11:10 14:9 
20:20 27:14 
30:24 54:16 

45:14 47:5 
Teague 54:12 
tell 21:12 42:24 
ten 23:6 47:13 
49:8,18 51:2 
53:7 

things 6:21 52:4 
think 4:7 7:11 
7:18 9:10,15 
11:6,16 12:21 
13:17 14:6,19 
14:19 17:11,20 
17:23 19:8 
20:9,11 21:12 
22:15 24:12 
25:3,21 27:10 
36:23 42:3,23 
43:17,24 45:16 
49:9 51:3 
52:11,13,23 
3:11,14 5:7 8:4  thinking 5:23 
8:9,19 9:18,25 
10:10 11:4,11  THOMAS 1:19 
13:11 14:4,24 
2:3,8 3:6 51:17 
15:1,2,14 
16:15 17:25 
18:3,7,18 19:2 
19:10 21:14 
23:4,6 25:16 
26:17,18,24 
27:10,15,16 
28:17 31:4,11 
31:19,23 32:4 
35:25 36:1,10 
37:21 38:13 
39:9 48:9,16 
48:16 52:9,14 
52:17,18,18 
53:8,8,13 54:3 
54:18 

three 5:3 14:20 
16:19 19:18 
53:7 

thought 4:14 
5:10 18:14 
44:12 

thousand 31:12 

tie-breaker 

Thompson 

31:17 32:2 

34:21 

22:24 

time 4:5,18 6:3 
6:17,23 7:6,9 
8:12,15,21 
9:23 10:3 15:2 
15:18 16:9 
19:14 20:1 
22:22 25:25 
27:5 29:10 
31:20,24,25
32:20 33:1 
37:9 39:1 40:6 
40:8,13 43:1,2 
43:3 44:4 51:6 
54:1 

timeframe 29:7 
timely 14:22 

Texas's 26:23 
text 11:18 14:7 

14:18 

textual 11:18 

13:8 

Thank 26:1 

51:14,19 54:21 
54:22 

thematic 9:6,10 

14:11 

theory 47:22 
thing 20:14 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

50:8 51:9,10 

violates 25:2 

understand 23:8  violation 11:22 

36:24,25 38:14 
45:12 

23:15 24:14,16  works 42:22,23 
24:18,19 25:12  world 15:20 
25:15 34:7 

50:12 

35:6 38:16 

today 15:1 
told 38:9 
tolled 6:3,14 
23:21 43:7 

tolling 4:17 5:11 

5:23 6:9 7:7 
10:25 30:5 
36:25 37:9 
38:14,18 39:8 
40:2,5,11 
41:23 
top 37:6 
tore 43:4 
trial 13:5 25:6 

25:10 34:3 

trigger 6:4 7:20 
triggers 3:19 
trouble 14:15 
troubling 9:7 
true 30:22 31:15 

32:3 37:1 
52:19,20 
trump 22:2 
try 19:1 25:6 
trying 5:21 7:21 

51:6 

Tuesday 1:13 
turned 33:4 
two 9:3 13:21 
20:19 32:22 
33:18 36:7 
41:8 46:9,10 
47:17 48:22 
50:18,22 52:4 
52:22 

two-step 38:11 
type 29:20 32:6 

35:19 

U 

ultimately 52:11 
unambiguous 
53:24 54:11 

underlying 

37:18 38:11 
39:22,25 40:2 

25:20 33:20 
42:23,25 47:15 

understood 

32:24 34:10 
undoubtedly 

unexhausted 

uniform 27:2 

27:17 

17:12 

28:20 

25:11 

uniformly 12:1 

unique 46:4 
United 1:1,16 
11:23 41:24 
50:5 

unnecessary 
26:8 27:25 
28:7 

untimeliness 

52:10 

untimely 15:4 
unusual 11:14 

12:5 23:4 
41:21,22 48:8 
use 13:19 29:6 
usual 54:15 
usually 7:13 

V 

v 1:5 3:4 5:4 
41:24 44:19 
49:5 50:5 
53:22 

W

wait 26:11 43:7 
waited 8:17

35:18,23 36:2 
49:5,8,25

waits 6:22 46:19 
want 9:4,5,14
18:23 22:16
30:15,24 31:1 
48:18,22 51:25 

wanted 6:25
7:11,13,18 
10:2 14:11
21:20,25 52:22 

wants 45:11
warden 12:17
Washington

1:12,19

wasn't 32:24

41:5,20

way 4:24 6:13 
13:14 14:4,22
19:6 21:13,14
21:15 29:17 
37:5 41:19
47:17

weak 50:19
went 20:16
we'll 40:9
we're 24:25
we've 41:16

42:17

willing 26:17,18 
winds 34:5 

varied 29:9,15 
varies 29:19 
various 28:18,23  white 25:1
vary 29:9,16 
vast 29:6,8 
versus 34:17,21  wishes 24:21 
word 30:14 
view 4:23 6:1,4  words 26:21 
32:23 34:22 
36:24 39:1 
work 33:19 

vindicating 25:8 
violated 25:7 

9:22 20:18 

37:12 

1 

1 3:22 5:20 7:12 

11:19 14:7 
27:2,8,13
28:13 31:8 
32:8 33:22,22
35:2,2,14,16
35:22 41:20
42:3 43:4 44:2 
45:7,8,12,13
45:19 46:1,14
46:15 47:19,20
48:1,1 52:23 
52:25 54:20 

worry 48:20 
worth 35:14 
wouldn't 8:22 
17:12 22:21 
30:21 34:11 
45:7,24 50:13 

wound 35:11 
writ 3:25 37:16 
wrong 5:22 7:5 
35:10,11 42:24  1-year 3:23
1:58 54:24
10 28:11
109 50:3 
11 9:18,23 10:8 

x 1:2,11 47:3 

X

Y

Yeah 23:11 28:2 
year 6:16,22,22

6:25 7:1,15 9:9 
9:17,17 10:3,5 
10:9 14:14
16:3,8,12,20
19:14,15,18
21:22 22:1,21
23:20 31:13
33:4,5 35:21 
40:6,16,21
41:7 43:5,6

years 5:2,3 8:18 

8:23 14:23
17:16 19:18
22:5 23:6
24:23 26:11
28:9,11 31:12 
31:17 32:2
35:19,23 36:3 
36:10 43:2
46:19 47:13,13
49:5,8,18,21
50:1

0

07-6984 1:5 3:4 

18:13

11.07 18:13,17
112 50:3
12:59 1:17 3:2 
15 23:6 28:11 
49:18 51:22

150 36:10
19 47:8 52:6 
1997 35:15

2

2 4:15,16 5:12 

10:24 16:16,23
36:22,24,24
37:24 38:14,23
38:25 40:2,5
40:12 43:9,14
47:19 52:23 
53:21

20 22:5,14 28:11 

29:7 53:6
2004 4:13 
2008 1:13
2244 6:13 10:2 
2244(d)(1)'s

2244(d)(1)(A)

26:9

3:23 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

2244(d)(1)(B) 

2244(d)(1)(C) 

7:8 

42:1 

2255 21:16 
26 2:6 
27 34:18 
29 29:24 
3


3 2:4 
30 22:14 
32 29:24 
36 34:19 
37 34:18,19 

4


4 1:13 
42 51:22 
43 8:3 
48 14:3 
5


50 14:3 28:18 
51 2:9 

9


90 29:8


Official - Subject to Final Review 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

