1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
                  
UNITED STATES, 
:
          
 Petitioner 
:
                       
:  No. 07-1059 
           
: 
                             
: 
              
:
         
 Petitioners 
:
                       
:  No. 07-1078 
            
EURODIF S.A., ET AL. 
: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

EURODIF S.A., ET AL.; 
and 
USEC INC., ET AL., 

 v. 

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Tuesday, November 4, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 11:06 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,

 Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner in No.
 07-1059. 

H. BARTOW FARR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of

 the Petitioners in No. 07-1078. 

CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of

 the Respondents. 

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S 
ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner in No. 07-1059 

      

3


H. BARTOW FARR, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioners in No. 07-1078 

    

17


CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondents 

                   

27


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner in No. 07-1059 

     

52


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (11:06 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument next in Case 07-1059, United States v. Eurodif 
and 07-1058, USEC v. Eurodif.

 Mr. Stewart.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 IN NO. 07-1059

 MR. STEWART:  Mr. Chief Justice and may it 

please the Court:

 The question presented in this case is 

whether the provision of enriched uranium under 
separative work unit or SWU contracts is covered by the 
Federal antidumping duty law.  The resolution of that 
question turns on whether the performance of SWU 
contracts results in merchandise being sold in the 
United States.  The Department of Commerce, which is the 
Federal agency entrusted by Congress with the 
administration of the antidumping duty law, concluded 
after an extensive investigation that SWU contracts do 
result in sales of enriched uranium.  That determination 
was reasonable and should be sustained by this Court.

 Now, the fundamental bargain in a SWU 

contract is that the customer, the utility, provides a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

combination of feedstock or feed uranium plus cash, and 
receives in return a specified quantity and assay of 
enriched uranium, and by "assay" I mean the percentage 
of weight of U-235 within the final product.  Now, the 
customer has discretion to choose among varying 
combinations of feedstock and cash in order to complete 
the transaction for a particular quantity and assay of 
enriched uranium; but the enricher has its own 
discretion.  That is, having received the consideration 
paid by the utility, the enricher is free to make its 
own determination based on economic considerations as to 
the relative proportions of feedstocks and SWUs that 
should be used to make a given quantity of enriched 
uranium.

 So the overall -- the character of the 

overall transaction is comfortably characterized as a 
sale, because it involves the acquisition by the utility 
of a product, merchandise, that it didn't own at the 
outset of the transaction in exchange for consideration.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I can imagine you could 

have a grain mill and they have lots and lots of grain 
absolute identical one to the other.  And the farmer 
takes his grain up and they operate on it, and then he 
drives away with the grain, milled.  Now, it may make no 
difference to anybody whether the identical molecules 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

are the same; and I think in such a case you'd say they 
are processing it; they are not buying and selling it.

 MR. STEWART:  Well, indeed, as we've 
explained in our opening brief, at common law the 
distinction between a bailment and a sale in that type 
of circumstance depended upon whether the miller or the 
equivalent processor was under an obligation to return 
the very same thing in processed form.  And if that 
was --

JUSTICE BREYER:  You are saying if we have 

that, in fact, if the -- if the exact situation, if some 
farmers up in North Dakota send their grain just to be 
milled -- it's their grain -- up in Canada, and they 
come back, and it -- you know, it may not be the 
identical molecule, but it's identically the same; they 
have done this for 100 years -- now suddenly this -- the 
Commerce Department is going to say, that's a sale, and 
the antidumping statutes apply?

 MR. STEWART:  We are saying that Commerce 

could treat it as a sale.  And --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, would it or not?
 MR. STEWART:  I think Commerce in that 

hypothetical -- again, if we were talking about grain 
being provided by the customer to a miller overseas --
overseas, and then the finished product being brought 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

back into this country, I think the logic of the 
Commerce determination here would suggest that it would 
be a sale.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I agree with you, and I 

just wonder, what I would like to know, is if any 
businessman involved in any of these or related things 
before this decision of the Commerce Department would 
have thought that that is how the Commerce Department 
would have treated such a transaction?

 MR. STEWART:  Well, I don't think that 

Commerce had before this incident dealt with exactly 
this type of situation.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, but common law would 

have treated it that way, you say?

 MR. STEWART:  Common law would have treated 

it --

authority.

JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's pretty good 

 MR. STEWART:  It certainly suggests that 

Commerce could permissibly treat it as a sale.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't know.  I'm 

asking -- the question is the same as the last case, to 
me:  Not whether they could have done it; sure they 
could have done it.  My question is based on my question 
of whether they had a rule that any reasonable person 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

would have thought that is how they treated it --

MR. STEWART:  I --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Because after all, you have 

three precedents in related areas, not the direct area 
but in related areas, that suggest that they wouldn't 
have treated the millers that way.

 MR. STEWART:  I'm not sure exactly which 

precedents you mean.  If -- the one that is -- the 
administrative determination that is cited most 
frequently is SRAMS from Taiwan, in which the design 
house provided, I believe it was a design mask to the 
foundry, and the foundry manufactured the finished 
equipment and in concluding that it was the design house 
rather than the foundry that was properly treated as the 
producer of the goods, the Commerce Department relied in 
part on the fact that the design house had intellectual 
property rights in the design mask.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  You know what, I'm thinking 
of those things, they're something called "tollers."  I 
don't know exactly what tollers are.  They seem to be 
like people who give haircuts.  They're sort of 
servicers of some kind.  They're talking about tollers 
and -- and subcontractors.  And that is a related area.

 MR. STEWART:  That's correct.  And the SRAMs 
cases is one of the toller or subcontractor cases.  And 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the Department of Commerce relied in part on the fact 
that the design house had intellectual property rights 
in the design mask.  So it was not fungible property, it 
was not an input that the foundry could have gotten from 
another source.

 The other thing we would say about the grain 

hypothetical is that when you hear about the farmer 
providing grain to the miller or the utilities providing 
feedstock to the enrichers, it may conjure up images of 
a tangible good that is in the physical possession of 
the farmer or the utility that is then physically 
transferred to the enricher.  In the case of the miller 
that is correct.

 But the way that a utility provides 

feedstock to an enricher is not by taking physical 
possession of the feedstock and then by transporting it. 
Rather, the utility simply makes financial arrangements 
with the supplier of feedstock, basically cuts a check 
or transfers funds --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Stewart, can I ask a 
question about the scope of discretion involved here? 
Assume the facts were not exactly as they are here, it 
is not a fungible product, but that each shipment was 
separately identified and each shipment was processed as 
a different batch in France and then sent back.  That I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

assume would not normally be treated as a sale of goods?
 MR. STEWART:  Well, I think that Commerce's 
determination suggests, without squarely holding, that 
it would treat that as a sale of goods because it would 
involve substantial transformation of the original item.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  That's really what I 

wanted to ask you.  Even if the facts were more extreme, 
just as in the example I gave, do you think the Commerce 
Department would have discretion to treat that as a sale 
of goods?

 MR. STEWART:  We do.  And I think it's 

important, to carry on with the thought I was sketching 
out previously about the way in which the raw materials 
are provided to the enricher.

 If you imagine my buying a suit from a 

tailor, and the tailor says:  The price is $600; $300 of 
that accounts for the cost of the cloth; $300 is the 
labor that's involved in sewing it into a suit. 
Clearly, that's a sale of merchandise, even though the 
price has been broken up --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But then supposing they 

send the suit back to a different person for 
alterations, and they say, well, this is part of the 
sale, so we want to treat it as a sale of goods?

 MR. STEWART:  Well, the alterations would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

just be a finishing process and that wouldn't involve 
substantial --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  What is the difference 

between that and what we've got here?

 MR. STEWART:  But the point I was going to 

make about the suit, and it applies equally to the 
uranium enrichment process, is if I say to my tailor, 
rather than I pay you $600 and you pay your cloth 
supplier $300, how about I just give you $300 and I will 
give $300 to your cloth supplier, and it will amount to 
the same thing in the end, because you won't have to pay 
for the cloth?  If the tailor accepts that arrangement, 
the economic substance is exactly the same.  And it 
would seem strange to say that it's a sale if I just pay 
$600 to the tailor, but it's not a sale if I break down 
the cost in the way that I've described.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Could you articulate 
precisely what your test is, because you have been going 
back and forth between whether the raw materials are 
fungible and whether there is a fundamental 
transformation in the product?  So, how would you merge 
those two in an articulable test so that business people 
can know when they are going to be subject to this 
regime and when they were not?

 MR. STEWART:  I think that the Commerce 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

determination -- that Commerce did not purport to either 
promulgate a regulation or announce a test that 
precisely defined the term "sale".  I think the thrust 
of the Commerce Department's determination was that 
substantial transformation was enough, but that the case 
was much easier by virtue of the fact that the 
producer -- the enricher dealt with fungible goods and 
also had substantial discretion to decide how much of 
the feedstock would be used vis-a-vis --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You would say your 

ultimate touchstone is whether there is substantial 
transformation, and whether it's a raw material or 
discretion, those go into that determination?

 MR. STEWART:  That's correct, although it 

would certainly be appropriate for this Court if it 
didn't want to address the situation in which only 
substantial transformation was present, to say that at 
least when both circumstances were present there was a 
sale.

 And again, to distinguish this somewhat from 
the miller hypothetical, the miller in making grain into 
flour may have discretion as to which individual grains 
to use for a particular batch of flour, but it won't 
typically have discretion as to what weight of grain 
will be used to make what weight of flour.  And the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

enricher has that discretion as well; that is, to 
produce a particular quantity and assay of enriched 
uranium, the enricher can either use more feedstock and 
fewer SWU's --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  What's a SWU?  You lost me 

on the SWU.  What's a SWU?

 MR. STEWART:  A SWU is a unit of work and 
it's work in the sense of output; that is, it is the 
work necessary to separate out a particular quantity of 
enriched uranium --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  If you put in more time 
with the uranium, with the same amount of 235, if you 
put in more time you can get out more?

 MR. STEWART:  That's right.  The amount 

of -- the separation process or the enrichment process 
involves a separation of the original feedstock into the 
enriched uranium and what is referred to as the tails, 
which is the residue or the depleted uranium.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sure you're 
prepared for a wide variety of hypotheticals.  What 
about a diamond?  You have a chunk of rock that contains 
a diamond.  You send it to Antwerp and they carve it 
away into something that, I guess you could say it's 
been substantially transformed.  It's not just a rock. 
It's now a glittering diamond.  Is that covered by --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. STEWART:  I'm not sure whether Commerce 

would treat that as substantial transformation.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Neither am I, and 

it's kind of -- it's sort of a bit of a concern.  It's a 
fluctuating test that is hard to determine how it's 
going to be applied in a wide variety of cases.

 MR. STEWART:  Now, in this case -- in this 

particular case, Commerce noted that there was no 
dispute among the parties that the enrichment process 
did result in substantial transformation.  So that --
that uncertainly is not present here.

 But I agree that there is a gray area with 

respect to substantial transformation that isn't present 
when you are trying to answer the question:  Is the 
customer getting back the same thing in modified form or 
is he getting back a different thing?  That is, although 
the contracts between the utility and the enricher deem 
the enriched uranium to have been produced with the 
customer's own feedstock, everybody acknowledges that 
that is not the fact in the real world.

 And so, what the customer receives back is 

not like your diamond hypothetical, in which he receives 
an improved version of the original product.  It is as 
though you had a diamond company that said, we need 
inventory all the time, and we're prepared to work out 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

an arrangement where if you send us a raw diamond plus 
cash, we will send you back a different cut diamond. 
That would be a sale, regardless of whether there was 
substantial transformation, because you would have 
payment of consideration for a product that you 
indisputably didn't own at the outset.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Stewart, we're 

reviewing a decision of the Federal Circuit.  And the 
Federal Circuit relied dominantly on the Florida Power 
case in which the same issue was presented, albeit under 
a different statute.

 But I -- reading that Florida Power, where 
the Federal Circuit adopted the Government's position, 
the Government's position then was that this very same 
transaction involved the rendition of services and not a 
sale of goods.

 Does the Government have a distinction 
between those two cases, or are you now saying in 
hindsight you realized that the position that you took 
before the Federal Circuit in the early case was wrong?

 MR. STEWART:  I don't think we have 

disavowed the position we took in the Florida Power & 
Light case.  Now, in all candor, I would have to say the 
question of the Contract Disputes -- Disputes Act's 
applicability to SWU contracts is of a lot less interest 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to the Federal Government now than it was then, because 
the reason that arose in a case involving the Federal 
Government was that at that time USEC was a Government 
instrumentality and we were representing USEC in its 
governmental incarnation.

 Now that USEC has been privatized, the 

Federal Circuit is unlikely to confront the question 
whether the Contract Disputes Act applies to this sort 
of, because these are not -- this is not a Federal 
entity, in any event.

 The reason that we think the two cases are 
reconcilable is that the Contract Disputes Act, as its 
name implies, is a statute that governs the resolution 
of disputes between contracting parties.  And in that 
situation, it's much more appropriate to look to the 
form of the parties' arrangement.  And the court -- the 
Federal Circuit in Florida Power and Light placed a lot 
of emphasis on the fact that the contract was styled as 
one for enrichment services.  And that is an appropriate 
consideration to take into account when you are 
resolving disputes between the contracting parties, but 
when the whole purpose of the antidumping statute is to 
prevent contracting parties from entering into 
arrangements that are mutually beneficial to themselves, 
but that would and unfairly disadvantage domestic 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

competitors, it was appropriate for Commerce to look 
behind the form of the contract and to look at physical 
and economic reality.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But isn't it correct that 
the universe of transactions that is the subject of this 
Act is sales?  Is that not right?  Rather than service 
contracts.

 MR. STEWART:  Well, it is true that the 

antidumping statute requires that merchandise be sold in 
the United States, and we don't contend that the statute 
applies to price discrimination in services like 
insurance or banking.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But do you -- do you 

contend the word "sold" is an ambiguous term, requires 
construction by a particular agency?

 MR. STEWART:  It is ambiguous at the 

margins; that is, the classic arrangement, the classic 
sale is an exchange of --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Do you think Congress 
intended the ambiguity to be resolved by an agency 
rather than judges applying the rules of common law and 
the rules of sales law generally?

 MR. STEWART:  Yes, and I think this is a 
statute that has been around for, I believe, close to 
90 years now; and in order for it to remain efficacious 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

in this area, Commerce has to be able to adapt its 
principles to new forms of transactions.  Again, that 
doesn't mean that Commerce's discretion is limitless, 
but it has some discretion at the margins.

 If I may, I would like to reserve the 

balance of my time.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Stewart.

 Mr. Farr.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. BARTOW FARR
 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

 IN NO. 07-1078

 MR. FARR:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 I would submit, as the questions this 

morning have indicated, one of the difficulties in this 
case, obviously, is this is the kind of transaction that 
can be thought about reasonably enough in different 
ways.  It is possible to look at this very narrow set of 
circumstances where a customer is providing raw 
materials of the kind that the producer uses to make a 
good, and to say in that circumstance we could look at 
it as the customer providing two kinds of consideration 
for the good it's receiving; or we could look at it, as 
the Respondents do and as the Federal Circuit did, as 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

saying, the other way to look at it is this is 
essentially the customer receiving a service on its own 
goods.

 Now it seems to me to begin with, the 

question that is before the Court properly is whether 
Commerce, which is undoubtedly the agency charged with 
enforcing this statute, has adopted a reasonable view 
when it's taken one of those two positions.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What -- what do we do about 

the question that is bothering me?  Maybe at some 
point -- maybe it's not a relevant question -- but I 
will assume for the sake of argument Commerce does have 
the power to classify it either way.

 What is bothering me, and maybe that's not 
in this case, is that as the -- as your brother lawyer 
just said, this statute has been around for 90 years. 
There has been trillions of dollars worth of foreign 
commerce during that time.  Yet I don't find cited here 
any instance in which Commerce ever before said that 
when you have title to a good, and you send it abroad, 
for even a big change in it, and then it comes back, 
that that is a sale.

 Now, I might -- I don't know all the 

Commerce cases; maybe they did.  But what I found here 
is like a blank on that side, and on the other side the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

tolling cases, Florida Power & Light, the pizza case, to 
the point where I thought, if I was a lawyer advising a 
client, and that client said if I keep title to the 
good, am I home free, I would have to say, yes, you are.

 MR. FARR:  Okay.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Now that's the -- the 

question I want responded to in the legal context of, 
has Commerce made a significant change in its policy?

 MR. FARR:  Several things about that, 

Justice Breyer.  First of all, as we have indicated in 
our brief, Commerce did have a policy prior to the 
tolling regulation, where it did treat these kinds of 
transactions as sales of goods.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  And I read -- at what page 

do I find all these cases?

 MR. FARR:  That is in our brief.  I'm sorry, 

I don't have --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, roughly.  I'll find 

it.  I will find it.

 MR. FARR:  But it's in --
JUSTICE BREYER:  But I will see a lot of 

cases where --

MR. FARR:  Where we discuss Commerce's 

tolling precedent.  And then it went and it essentially 
decided that what it had done in that precedent, it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

wanted to reexamine that, because it thought in the end 
what was happening in all of those cases is there was a 
resale of the merchandise; and it thought it would be a 
better practice to focus on that sale of the merchandise 
for purposes of applying the statute.

 When it did that, however, it found it had 

created a loophole in the case where there wasn't a 
further sale.  So it has gone back to that.  So at least 
in terms of the precedent, Commerce has been on 
different sides of that, but they have been wrestling 
with exactly the problem that I outlined at the 
beginning, which is dealing with a question that 
essentially has no ready answer to it and trying to pick 
among the plausible answers that were available to it.

 Secondly, just about the specific situation 
here, I don't believe that there is any chance that the 
utilities and the enricher in this case could claim 
unfair surprise or unjust reliance; because they say in 
their own briefs, they did not set their transactions up 
in this way in order to try to comply with prior 
decisions of Commerce.

 They say -- they make a point in their brief 

in saying we have perfectly innocent intentions here, 
that they set their transactions up purely for 
historical and commercial reasons. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

So -- now, the other question that 
Justice Breyer raises is about the cases, and 
Justice Ginsburg I think mentioned earlier the Florida 
Power & Light decision.  And again, Florida Power & 
Light is a case in which there is no agency that is 
before the Court.

 So at that point there is no question of 
Chevron deference, no question of whether this is a 
reasonable position; all that the Court had to decide 
was, given the possible choices, which did it think was 
the better choice under those circumstances?  And 
particularly I think it's important in that case, is the 
Federal Circuit said, this is a case that doesn't fall 
readily into either of the two categories.  So it went 
ahead and had to decide it on its own.

 But it seems to me that when you say in a 
case with an agency involved, and the agency has made 
one determination, that a case could fall within either 
of categories -- of categories --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Farr, are there 

earlier cases that applied Chevron deference to the 
Commerce's determination of what a sale is?

 MR. FARR:  No, there are not, Your Honor, 

that I am aware of.  But --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You agree that the Chevron 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

case is not a substantial evidence case?

 MR. FARR:  I do think so, although I must 

say the line between the two is not enormously clear to 
me, to be honest.  But -- but the fact is if I were 
trying to figure out where on the side of the line it 
goes, it seems to me that this is a case in which you 
are talking about the application of a legal standard to 
a particular set of circumstances.  I mean, in Chevron, 
you have the situation, is a certain kind of facility a 
stationary source or whatever?  I mean that -- you could 
say, well, that is a factual question in some way, but 
it seems to me ultimately the better way to think about 
it is Commerce's responsibility is to interpret the law 
in the light of cases that come up.

 I mean, an agency does not -- is not 

expected by Congress just to sit back and imagine all 
the possible situations that could be a sale of 
merchandise.  I think what the agency is supposed to do 
is, confronted with the circumstance in a particular 
transaction, to apply its judgment on the statutory 
language and say, yes, we do think this is a sale of 
merchandise or no, we don't.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  If we are to defer 
to the agency's interpretation, what -- how would you 
phrase its interpretation, apart from "this is a sale"? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. FARR:  Well, I think -- the narrowest 

interpretation, and it seems to me the one that is most 
readily dealt with is, to say, in a situation where a 
customer provides raw material that is the type of, but 
not the precise raw material, used by a manufacturer to 
make the good that it then delivers to the customer, in 
that situation, we are going to treat the manufacturer 
as having made a sale of that good for the consideration 
of the cash and the raw material.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So it doesn't matter 

whether there is a substantial transformation or not?

 MR. FARR:  I think it does, 

Mr. Chief Justice, in this sense, that we are talking 
about the sale of the merchandise and that is a new 
good.  So the substantial transformation is essentially 
what moves the ball from -- from being the -- the raw 
material supplied by the customer to something 
different.  And the question would be in this case, 
could Commerce reasonably think that the manufacturer 
had sufficient control over the new good to be deemed 
the owner of that?

 And I think it's important to look, if you 
look at the -- there are two different commodities that 
are being talked about in the case of this transaction: 
One is the feedstock, the raw material; the other is the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

LEU.  And the idea that the Respondents posit is, well, 
this is just a service performed on our material.  All 
we are doing is getting our material back after a 
service has been performed on it.

 But as everybody agrees, as a matter of 

fact, that is simply not so.  They are not getting their 
material back with a service performed on it.  They are 
getting a product that has been produced, manufactured, 
from raw material that is fungible and in the general 
inventory of the manufacturer.  And in that case, it 
seems to me, Commerce can say, we are going to disregard 
the fiction of the parties' contracts that say this 
really is made from our material, and say we are going 
to look at the actual nature of the transaction.  And in 
the actual nature of the transaction, as I said, it is 
not made from their material.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So that -- so that 

is the critical factor, whether it's made from their 
material, regardless of whether there is a 
transformation?  If the domestic entity provides wood, 
wooden two-by-fours, and the foreign entity coats it in 
a certain way, but they can use any two-by-fours, they 
are indistinguishable, you would say in that case 
there's still -- that's still subject to Commerce's 
position? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. FARR:  No, I don't think Commerce would 
say that.  I am to some extent speaking for them here. 
But I think what Commerce would say is, when you have a 
fungible raw material in substantial transformation 
without --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So it's got to be 

both?

 MR. FARR:  I think that Commerce would say, 
if you have both, that clearly can be regarded as a sale 
of merchandise, and we will regard it as a sale of 
merchandise.  On the other hand, if you only have 
substantial transformation but not fungibility, then I 
believe Commerce would say, even in that situation, 
because it's ultimately the effect on the domestic 
competitor is exactly the same, we would retain the 
discretion to treat even that as a sale of merchandise.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Would you --
MR. FARR:  I would emphasize that's not the 

case.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Would you do that if you 
thought it was clear as a matter of common law or under 
the Uniform Sales Act, or something like that, that it 
was not a sale?

 MR. FARR:  I think because of the different 

circumstances, under the common law, for example, I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

should make very clear -- but I should make first my 
answer to you, Justice Stevens.  Under the common law, 
the particular transaction we were dealing with here, 
where it is not made from the identical material, is 
clearly a sale under the common law.  But if you -- if 
Commerce were going to say, in a situation where it is 
made from the identical material, we want to depart from 
the common law, I think they would have to justify that.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Under common law, you 

don't need deference.

 MR. FARR:  Pardon me?
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  I'm sorry.  If it were 
clearly a sale under common law, you wouldn't need to 
rely on deference.

 MR. FARR:  Well, in the end, I think, in the 

commercial setting, there is a reasonable chance, not 
necessarily certain because you do have the UCC and you 
have the possibility, in those situations, the courts 
might say, in a commercial setting, we are going to pay 
more attention to the parties' efforts to structure 
their contracts in a particular way, so that between 
them, we are going to treat the contract differently. 
All our position is, is that Commerce, in applying the 
antidumping law to protect a third party doesn't have to 
observe the fictions in the parties' contract. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 MR. FARR:  Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Ms. Halligan.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF CAITLIN J. HALLIGAN

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS

 MS. HALLIGAN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 I would like to start with Justice Breyer's 

question about the way in which the Department of 
Commerce has treated transactions for the processing of 
goods and the uncertainty that their position in this 
case will cause, not just in this industry but across 
industries.

 As you suggested, Justice Breyer -- you 

referred to -- the Department of Commerce has treated 
processors who are called "tollers", in the language 
that Commerce uses, as performing a service.  And the 
transaction for the sale of that service has not been 
treated as a cognizable sale under the antidumping law.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And those have been cases 

where the very same product is returned with value 
added, right?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  Not necessarily.  Sometimes 

that is the case, Your Honor, but not always.  For 
example, in the Taiwan Semiconductors case, which Mr. 

27

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Stewart referred to and which is cited in our brief, 
what the U.S. company provided was simply a design to 
for a chip.  The Taiwanese company, which was the 
processor in the case according to the Department of 
Commerce, manufactured the chip, provided the silica, 
used the design of the U.S. company, but no raw 
materials at all.  The Department of Commerce, in its 
explanation as to why it treated the sale for purposes 
of the antidumping law as the eventual sale by the U.S. 
company and did not and could not treat the sale by the 
processor as a cognizable sale, explained that the 
statute itself requires Commerce to compare the U.S. 
price, which is called the export price, the price at 
which a good is sold or imported into the United States, 
with the price at which the product is sold in the 
company's home market.  And because a processor does not 
and cannot either provide all the essential components 
of the product, because it's only providing the 
processing service and not the raw materials, and 
because it does not and cannot set the price at which 
the product is sold in the United States, it is 
therefore not the appropriate sale to look at that in 
terms of the antidumping statute.  That's --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What do you do about 
the substance versus formality question?  I mean, if you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

do have fungible raw materials, why should it make a 
difference whether the domestic company supplies those 
to the foreign company or simply says -- gives them 
money and says, buy them yourselves?  And in the latter 
case, you would say that's a sale, and in the former 
case you would say it's not a sale?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  First of all, the Department 

of Commerce has not until this case suggested that 
fungibility of goods might make some sort of a 
difference.  In fact, in one of the cases that we cite 
regarding flanges which were, according to the 
Department of Commerce, fungible, they concluded that 
the processing service there was not the cognizable 
sale, the downstream sale of that product was.

 But more importantly it doesn't change the 

substance of the deal between the two parties.  What the 
utilities come to the table with is cash, and they 
provide the feed.  It is fungible as a matter of its 
physical properties.  It is a gas.  And when the feed is 
put into the gaseous diffusion chamber, which is the 
large installation that the enricher uses to concentrate 
the two different molecular isotopes, it takes a month 
for the gas to work its way through this plant.  The 
enricher cannot feasibly segregate different lots of 
feed, just like you can't with a grain elevator. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The analogy would be, with respect to a 

grain elevator, you would have to run in one farmer's 
bag of feed, run it all the way through the elevator and 
through the mill, and wait until the product comes out 
at the end, and then run another farmer's bag of feed 
through.  That's economically impractical and --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  No, old mills used to do 

that.  The farmer used to take his harvest to the mill, 
and it would be ground right there while he was waiting.
 MS. HALLIGAN:  But -- but there is nothing 
about the economic transaction that requires that it --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's absolutely true.
 MS. HALLIGAN:  -- that happen, and more 

importantly, the enrichers don't end up at the end of 
the day with any feed.  They are also --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Your brief constantly 

assumes that there has been no sale, that throughout the 
entire transaction, the utility owned what ultimately 
becomes the rods, as though it was indeed the same 
feedstock that produced the rod that was ultimately 
delivered.  And that is simply not true.  There is a 
change -- there is a change of ownership.  The feedstock 
that somebody else put into the mix is now transferred 
to the -- to the electric utility.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  It may be the same molecules; 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it may not be.  There is no way to know or to tell.  And 
there is --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's exactly right.  You 
don't know.  So, you had cannot say that there has been 
no transfer of ownership.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  Respectfully, Your Honor, I 

disagree.  If you look at the contracts, and the 
substance squares with the contracts because, at the end 
of this transaction, what the enricher walks away with 
is cash and what the utilities walk away with are the 
same number of uranium molecules that they came to that 
plant with.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  No, we've got the same 

molecules.  I mean, when you are talking about whether 
there has been a transfer of ownership or a transfer of 
title, you are talking about molecules; you are not 
talking about whether you ended up the same in, you 
know, in monetary terms.  You are talk about whether you 
have the same thing that you delivered to the person 
overseas.  And you don't, or at least you can't say that 
you do.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  You can't say for sure 

because the gas molecules can't be segregated that way.

 I think that you need to look at two things: 

I think that you need to look at what each of the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

parties to the transaction come to the table with and 
what they walk away with.  And with respect to the 
utilities, they come to the table with uranium.  It's a 
very expensive commodity.  The contracts are clear that 
they hold title to it through the process until such 
time as they take possession of the concentrated 
uranium.  It is clear from the contracts that there is 
an intent to maintain a continuous stream of ownership.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That makes no sense, what 

you just said.  That contract makes no sense.  They hold 
title to it until they get the uranium rods, right?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  No, they hold title to it 

until -- just to provide a --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Most of it is back 
It's still mixed with the other fungible U 

overseas. 
235.

MS. HALLIGAN:  Your Honor, the contracts 

provide several things.  First of all, they provide that 
the utilities will deliver their feed within a certain 
number of days prior to the date on which they will have 
the concentrated uranium product provided to them.  It's 
60 to 90 days, depending on the contract.

 So, pursuant to the contract, they deliver 
the uranium feed.  The utilities run it through their 
system.  And at the end of that diffusion process, they 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

take the concentrated isotopes out and they provide that 
to the utility.  The enrichers don't receive any amount 
of feed that they can then take on to the open market.
 By distinction, if you look at a used car 
sale, for example, which is an analogy the government 
uses.  If I want to trade my car in, I come to the 
dealer and I bring with me two pieces of consideration. 
I bring the used car, which is payment in time and I 
bring cash.  I walk away with my wallet a little bit 
lighter and a new car, and the used car dealer has cash, 
but also has an item that he can then go out onto the 
market and sell.

 That does not occur here.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  That's only -- that's only 

true because apparently they use up all the feed that 
they get.  If, in fact, they found a way to manufacture 
to enrich more efficiently so that some feed was left 
over, I presume you would not be here arguing that they 
could not sell that feed on the open market even after 
they had delivered the enriched uranium to the buyer?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  The price terms of the 

contract provide only for the utilities to pay for the 
amount of energy that is expended.

 I would distinguish this from another kind 
of contract per uranium feed, which we don't contest is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

covered by the antidumping laws.  There is a very small 
percentage of concentrated uranium, of low enriched 
uranium that is sold pursuant to what the parties call 
an enriched uranium product contract, an EDP contract. 
That sort of a contract is one in which the enricher 
goes out into the market procures feed and performs a 
processing service.  The utility comes to the enricher, 
pays them cash and walks away with the product.

 By comparison, in these contracts, the 

utilities are providing something that is very valuable. 
The feed company --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yeah, but why are they 

providing something that is very valuable that, in fact, 
could not be obtained by the enricher on the open market 
if those were the contract terms?  The enricher buys it 
in the -- in the -- I forget the acronym in the case 
that you just described -- and we don't know -- we have 
no reason to believe the enricher couldn't go out on the 
market and buy it if, in fact, the utility didn't supply 
the feed.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  Those are very different 

kinds of contracts, though, Your Honor.

 The contract in which the enricher simply 

provides some amount of enriched uranium for a price and 
procures the feed, which is a sliver of the total 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

contracts -- it's 5 percent even for USEC -- is one in 
which the enricher is bearing the cost of the feed and 
the risk of those price fluctuations.

 The reasons that the contracts are 

predominantly, almost exclusively structured as services 
contracts by distinction is that the utilities choose to 
manage the process of procuring fuel themselves.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Sure.  They would rather 
manage the risk of price fluctuation than, in effect, 
pay the premium that the processor would have to charge 
in order to hedge against price fluctuation --

MS. HALLIGAN:  That's right.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  That's why they are doing 

that.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  And so, they go out into the 

market and procure the feed pursuant to whatever 
arrangements they have with their feed suppliers.  By 
comparison, all they are coming to the enricher for is 
the service of concentrating that positional isotope 
into the assay --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  That is a way of looking at 

it.  But another way of looking at it is because they 
choose to, in effect, take the risk of price fluctuation 
as preferable to paying a higher ultimate price, they 
are simply, for that reason, choosing to pay both in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

cash and in a -- a valuable commodity, i.e., unenriched 
uranium.  You can look at it either way.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  They are.  But they are 

choosing to pay two completely different entities in two 
unrelated and two unlinked transactions.  So, it 
doesn't -- we are not disagreeing that there is a 
transaction for feed that the uranium -- that the 
utilities engage in to procure their feed.  There has to 
be.  But that is not part of the distinct services 
contracts for processing only, which is all that the 
Department of Commerce is looking to shoehorn into this 
statute here.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Ms. Halligan, try this 

hypothetical, and it really gives you the benefit of the 
doubt.  Let's assume a department store buys raw wool 
from some sheep herder, sends it overseas.  And it's 
worth $1,000, this raw wool.  It is processed, spun and 
knitted into sweaters, and then shipped back to the 
department store.  The sweaters, all made from the same 
wool, not even fungible, so that's why this is even 
better than your example -- the sweaters when they come 
back, are worth not $1,000, but $20,000.

 Do you think it would be unreasonable for 

the Commerce Department to treat that as a sale of 
sweaters by the European knitting wool or -- or home 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

knitters who did the sweaters?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  It would be perfectly 

appropriate for the Department of Commerce to do what it 
has done in the past, which is to treat the sale of the 
sweater by the U.S. companies for $20,000 as the 
cognizable sale.

 The only thing that makes this case --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Say it again?
 MS. HALLIGAN:  In your hypothetical --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  I'm talking about the --
I'm talking about the sale from the European mills to 
the American department store.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  That would be a processing 

transaction.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  A processing transaction. 

It has changed a value of $1,000 into a value of -- what 
did I say -- $20,000?  And that's just processing?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  Let me give you an example of 

what the Department of Commerce has looked at.  They --
they looked at the processing of pasta.  And the --
there the manufacturer came to a company -- this is a 
place called Certain Pasta from Italy -- it's referenced 
in the brief -- the company came to the processor with 
wheat and presumably whatever other products went into 
the pasta, some milk or eggs.  The pasta was processed 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and made into pasta from the wheat and given back to the 
U.S. company.

 The Department of Commerce concluded that 
the appropriate sales target was not the making of the 
pasta, the processing of the pasta, but the downstream 
sale of the pasta in the United States.

 And that is what the statute requires.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  They said there was no 

sale.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  They said that --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  When the pasta was 

imported, there was no sale into the United States.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  No, they said that --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  But that's what we are 

talking about here.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  We don't disagree, Your 
Honor, that there is a product that comes into the 
United States, it's low enriched uranium.  But the 
statute doesn't target the importation of products.  And 
in that way it is distinct from the companion statute, 
the countervailing duty statute.  What this statute, the 
antidumping statute, covers is the sale of merchandise 
into the United States.

 That means that you have to have merchandise 

as distinct from services, but by comparison to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

countervailing duty statute covers both, which is part 
of how we know that Congress means that distinction 
tolls.  And you have to --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Get back to your pasta 

case.  Was the holding of that case that there was no 
sale into the United States?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  The question before Commerce 
was which transaction is the appropriate transaction for 
us to treat as -- as the one that establishes the price 
all over the United States.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's a different issue. 

We are not talking here about which transaction 
establishes the price.  We are talking simply about 
whether there was a sale into the United States.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  It turns on the same issue, 
Your Honor, and here's why.  In all of these processing 
cases that the Department of Commerce has looked at, 
they have explained that the reason why the cognizable 
sale is the sale of the finished product in the United 
States, the pasta, the sweater, or whatever it may be, 
is because the statute gets at price discrimination. 
And it instructs the Department to look at the price at 
which the product is sold in the United States.

 The price for the weaving of the sweaters, 

even if it does add the sort of value that you are 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

talking about, is not the price at which the product is 
sold, nor does it reflect all of the components of the 
transaction, because there is some components that the 
wool request.  So to determine whether there is price 
discrimination, you have to look apples to apples at 
which the product is sold in the United States.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Now, wait.  Suppose these 

knitting mills in my example, in fact, are selling their 
sweaters for a much higher price in Europe.  Instead of 
$20,000 for this batch of wool, in Europe they are 
selling it for $40,000.  And they nonetheless sell the 
wool back into the United States for only $20,000.

 You are telling me that that transaction 

doesn't -- doesn't count for purposes of our antidumping 
law?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  To the extent that it may --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  That you have to look at 
the price at which the department store then sells to 
individuals?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  That's right.  Because that's 

what the statute is intended to capture.  The statute 
was enacted --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  But the department store is 

not dumping.  It's -- it's the knitting mills that are 
dumping. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. HALLIGAN:  But the question, Your Honor, 

is -- is the price at which the product is sold in the 
United States.  Section 1677(a) defines "export price" 
and "constructed export price" as the price at which the 
subject merchandise is first sold in the United States. 
And that is what you have to look at.

 It may certainly be true that you may be 
able to sell a product at less than its fair value to 
the extent that you are obtaining processing services at 
a price lower than what you could obtain them in a 
foreign country.  But the -- the bottom line is you have 
to look at what the statute explicitly instructs, at the 
price at which the subject merchandise is sold in the 
United States.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.  And accepting that, 
you -- you have to begin the whole thing, however, with 
a sale, with a sale into the United States, right?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  A sale and I --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  And I thought this is --
this is what you say fails in this case.  That is the 
link of the chain that doesn't exist.  You say there is 
no sale in the United States.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  There is an importation of 

LEU into the United States by the utilities.  The 
utilities consume that fuel in their reactors.  They do 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

not sell it onward as the company would sell a sweater 
or would sell a pasta or would sell Rya rugs.  That is 
something that makes this case somewhat different and --
JUSTICE BREYER:  That is pretty important. 
Tell me -- this is a hard area, obviously.  But the --
imagine -- think of all the toller cases that they've 
had.

 Now -- now, is this right:  That in every 
one of those cases there were two companies, A and B; 
and in every one of those cases A sells a finished 
product into the United States.  And also A sends the 
product to B to have some major thing done on it.  In 
every one of those cases the Commerce Department could 
say:  We can take A as a Respondent; i.e. we think A 
might violate the law, because maybe it's an Italian 
company, or we think B might violate the law.  Is that 
true of all those cases?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  It is true.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  Now, if it's 

true of all those cases, then I think what the opposite 
position is, what Mr. Farr said, I think -- I think, you 
know, I will -- he will say:  Look at page 40 and 41 of 
their brief.  When I look at those pages, I am going to 
see a lot of cases.  And I bet, when I look them up, 
those Commerce cases are all going to use the word 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

"substantial transformation."  And he will say:  You 
see, that's what they did here.

 Then he's going to add -- I don't mean to 
put words in his mouth if the words are wrong, but --
but he's going to add:  Look at those tolling cases. 
Those are all cases where Commerce had a choice of which 
to consider the sale.  It could have considered the sale 
from the processor A to -- to B to A, the sale if it 
wanted to; or it could have considered the sale into the 
United States if it had wanted to, to be the sale for 
purposes of calculating the price.

 And so in choosing between those two, either 
of which it could have chosen, it chose the latter sale, 
the final sale, because that's how they could calculate 
the price.

 But in your case there is no such person A, 

because the utilities are not people who could be 
respondents.  I mean they are not in the same position. 
There is no sale onwards that they could choose.  So we 
will go to the other guy, the party -- the person who 
does the processing.  Are you following what I am 
saying?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  Yes.  And then it starts an 

invidious --

JUSTICE BREYER:  And what is the answer to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  And here is why that's not 
sufficient.  It's the problem of the tail wagging the 
dog, right?  What the United States is saying is that 
because in this single circumstance we do not have a 
downstream sale of pasta, or a sweater, or whatever the 
item might be, and we can't go after that transaction, 
that, therefore, we are asking this Court to sign off on 
essentially rewriting the statute.

 The statute refers to a sale of merchandise.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.  But, remember, they 
are saying in the tolling cases, in my words:  Hey, we 
could have gone after the processor if we wanted --

MS. HALLIGAN:  But that's --
JUSTICE BREYER:  -- if there had been a 
substantial transformation, because the key to this 
concept of "sale" is the word "substantial" 
transformation.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  Two responses, Your Honor:
 First of all, the statute doesn't allow 
that, and I would recommend to the court the remand 
response that Commerce provided in the Taiwan 
semiconductor case.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  In which --
MS. HALLIGAN:  The Taiwan semiconductor case 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

which is cited in the brief.  It explains why the 
definition of "export price" and "constructed export 
price" means you can't go after a processing 
transaction.

 Secondly, in order to find for the 

government here and reverse the Federal circuit, you 
would effectively have to agree with the government's 
position that processing services where they are part of 
the manufacturing operation somehow are within the terms 
of the statute.  And so that would mean that the 
government can say in this case that because there's no 
downstream sale that it can capture, it will choose to 
go after the processing transaction.  But there is no 
way to gauge down the road whether it will make the same 
choice.  And here --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  What does -- what does the 
government do with respect to these other transactions 
where, indeed, the utility does not provide the feed 
uranium but just pays for, you know, getting -- getting 
the rods?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  In those cases --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  There is no down -- you 
know, there is no domestic sale there, either.  Is it 
conceivable that there, therefore, can be no dumping in 
such a case? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. HALLIGAN:  No.  Those cases -- we -- we 
do not disagree -- are a sale of merchandise because the 
utility is paying for the entire commodity.

 What -- that is a substantial transformation 
point, Justice Breyer.  I would like to -- to return to 
that.

 There are many processing transactions which 

involve some kind of substantial transformation where 
you have a product like wheat and you turn it into 
something else like pasta, or wool and you turn it into 
--

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Isn't it true that in all 
of those cases there is no transfer of ownership of the 
basic product?  And here -- and I am not sure you have 
really addressed it --it is a fungible product, and you 
are assuming you can't tell whether -- when it is in 
process or whether it is one party's or the other's.

 But if you could tell and you had some way 
of identifying just which one here, but they wouldn't 
care because they are all equally valuable, and if it 
developed that it was actually a third party's product 
that was being processed, then there would be a transfer 
of ownership, and there clearly would be a sale.  Isn't 
that true?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  I think not, Your Honor, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

certainly not for the same reasons that you would have 
that in -- in a grain elevator.  If the enricher goes 
out and purchases the feed and holds title to that feed 
while it is enriching it, then, yes, there would be a 
transfer of ownership.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But you have the same 

contract you've got here, but you are able to identify 
that, in fact, there is a difference in the -- in the 
commodity that -- that -- at least not a different raw 
material that was sent to France and returned.  It is 
just a substitute.  It seems to me that -- in that 
context, within the meaning of your argument, that there 
would have been the transfer of title to that -- that 
commodity.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  First of all, you can't tell 
-- and I don't think there is any -- any dispute as to 
that fact.  But, secondly, if you look at the common law 
of --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, isn't it true, if 

you can't tell, the odds are that there is some product 
the title to which has been transferred?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  No, I -- I think you 

certainly can't tell what molecules come out the other 
end.  I think --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Can't we assume -- let's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

assume that there is.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  Yes.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Assume that there are --

are two sources for the uranium, A and B, and it goes to 
the enricher.  A gives it; B gives it.  A ends up with 
B's uranium.  Justice Stevens is saying at some point 
there is a transfer of title.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  And that's -- that's the 

operative premise that I am disagreeing with, with all 
due respect.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No.  We are asking you to 

accept that hypothetical, so we can --

MS. HALLIGAN:  I mean the legal -- the legal 

consequences is -- is what I am --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Are you saying the utility 

doesn't have title to what was formerly B's uranium?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  The utility holds title to a 

discreet amount of feed uranium.  It's in -- I --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  The enrichment is done. 

It's back in the United States.  The utility says:  This 
is my uranium.  I have title.  Do you dispute that?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  No, not at all.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  How does he get the title 

from -- to the uranium that was formerly B's uranium?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  Because --

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  At what point did that 

title transfer?

 MS. HALLIGAN:  It -- maybe the useful 

analogy is money -- is money in the bank, Your Honor. 
If I take $100 and I bring it to the bank, ten 10's, and 
I take away five 20's, I may not have the same dollar 
bills that I brought to the bank, but I don't think 
anyone would argue that, somehow, the bank takes title 
to my money.  I retain ownership of that, and there is 
nothing in the contract which suggests that there is any 
change of ownership that is --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You don't -- you 
don't retain ownership of that.  And if you go to the 
bank and say:  Show me my money, they are not going to 
say:  Well, here's your money.  They -- they have title 
to it.  They own it, and you have a claim against the 
bank to what you gave them.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  But the bank could not hold 
title to that as against me if I came and tried to take 
the money out of my safe deposit box, nor could the 
farmers at the -- at the grain elevator be told that 
they -- they don't have title to the grain.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Is there any point in time 

from the time that the -- the processors get ahold of 
the uranium until the time it leaves their control that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

if they went bankrupt, anyone other than the utility 
could get ahold of the product?
 MS. HALLIGAN:  No.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  No.  Okay.
 MS. HALLIGAN:  And let me clarify this 

because it's an important issue.  These are very 
expensive, offshore transactions that the utilities 
engage in in order to purchase a feed.  It is a very 
valuable commodity.  So what is critical to the --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but if they go 
bankrupt because -- I mean let's say they don't have all 
the uranium.  They have got five people who shipped them 
uranium, and they have only got enough for four.  Each 
of the five can't say:  I'm entitled to get mine back.

 MS. HALLIGAN:  But -- but the system doesn't 

operate that way, Your Honor.  The contracts provide 
that the utilities have to deliver feed.  And it's a 
very different sort of business that the utilities are 
engaged in, to go out into the market and make bets 
based on the price fluctuations for uranium and procure 
that uranium.

 The enrichers are not in that business, and 

so there would be no economic reason or any reason 
provided for in the contracts for them to proceed that 
way. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

I would like to touch briefly, if I can, on 

the purpose of the statute, because the government 
relies very strongly on this notion that somehow the 
processors' sales have to cognizable in order to further 
the antidumping statute.

 This law is not a boundless license to 

protect domestic industry from any competition.  There 
are other statutes that are are written much more 
broadly in the trade laws; for example, the 
countervailing duties law, the safeguards law which 
allows the Department of Commerce to impose quotas or 
tariffs on the import -- not the sale but the import of 
any goods, statutes regarding the protection of 
intellect0ual property rights, all of which are cited in 
the -- in the briefs.

 So the notion that somehow to protect the 

integrity of the statute you need to rewrite it to allow 
them to address processing sales exclusively is really 
not -- not well-founded.

 Finally, with respect to the loophole 

question that the government has relied on, I think it's 
important to focus on what is specifically at issue 
here.  The government initially argued that it was 
critical to address this case and these particular 
transactions because of concerns about agreements with 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the Russians.

 That has been addressed as to U.S. concedes 

in its -- legislation that has been implemented by 
Congress.  The government has consistently in court and 
in its decisions -- not just in the Contract Disputes 
Act that you referenced Justice Ginsburg, but in other 
cases regarding the UCC which relates to the sale of 
goods, the government has said:  These very kinds of 
contracts for the processing of uranium are contracts 
for services.  They are not covered by statutes that 
reach the sale of goods or the disposal of property.
 There is nothing that has changed with 

regard to the statute or with regard to these kinds of 
transactions; and, accordingly, we would ask you to 
affirm the Federal Circuit.  If there are no other 
questions --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Ms. 

Halligan.  Mr. Stewart, you have three minutes 
remaining.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 IN NO. 07-1059
 MR. STEWART:  Thank you.
 One of the things Ms. Halligan said, and I 

think it's really a central theme of their brief, is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that utilities come to the enricher for services and not 
for goods.  And to understand what it is that utilities 
acquire, I think it may be helpful to ask:  Under what 
circumstances would the utility have a valid breach-of-
contract right?

 And it is very clear that the enricher's 

obligation under the contract is to deliver a specified 
quantity and assay of enriched uranium at a specified 
time and place.  And if the enricher complies with that 
obligation, it doesn't matter that the enricher decided 
to -- what they call in the industry -- "overfeed"; that 
is, use more feed staff stock and fewer SWU's to produce 
the final product.

 And the utility in that circumstance 

couldn't file a breach-of-contract claim by saying:  I 
paid for more SWU's than I actually received.  Because 
what the utility had contracted for was a given product.

 The second thing -- and I think the 

corollary to that is -- it's potentially misleading to 
say that every contract is either one for merchandise or 
one for services, especially when you are contracting to 
acquire ownership of a commodity that doesn't exist at 
the time the contract is formed.  The only way you are 
going to get to your ultimate objective is for somebody 
to create it.  And that can generally be described as a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

service, but it still results in the sale of goods.
 With respect to the used-car analogy, I 

understood Ms. Halligan to acknowledge that -- that that 
would be a sale even though the consideration paid by 
the customer is partly in cash and partly in kind.  And 
if the customer and the car dealership characterize 
their contract as one for car-refurbishment services and 
said that the new car the customer receives shall be 
deemed to be the used car that it traded in in 
refurbished form, nobody would contend that that deeming 
quality should be controlling.

 Now here the -- the falseness of the 
proposition that it's the same feedstock is less 
apparent, but it's equally the case that the utility 
doesn't receive back its original feedstock.

 And finally the perspective of tolling 

regulation in cases, Commerce has essentially said three 
things:

 First, we were dealing with a separate 

question; that is, who is the producer, which sale is 
relevant, and not whether the goods are covered at all.
 Second, they said in those situations the 

tollee was exercising much more control over the 
ultimate process than is the case here where the 
utilities don't manufacture anything.  They simply pay 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

for one of the inputs.

 And, finally, Commerce said that if at some 
level of abstraction there is a tension or contradiction 
between what we said previously and what we decide 
today, then what we decide today controls.  And Commerce 
is entitled to make that determination.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Stewart.  The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 12:07 p.m. the case was 

submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

A 

able 17:1 41:8 

above-entitled 

47:7 

1:15 

abroad 18:20 
absolute 4:22 
absolutely 30:12 
abstraction 55:3 
accept 48:12 
accepting 41:15 
accepts 10:12 
account 15:20 
accounts 9:17 
acknowledge 

acknowledges 

54:3 

13:19 

acquire 53:3,22 
acquisition 4:17 
acronym 34:16 
Act 15:8,12 16:6 

25:22 52:6 

actual 24:14,15 
Act's 14:24 
adapt 17:1 
add 39:25 43:3,5 
added 27:22 
address 11:16 

51:18,24 

addressed 46:15 

52:2 

3:20 

7:9 

18:7 

administration 

administrative 

adopted 14:13 

advising 19:2 
affirm 52:15 
agency 3:19 

16:15,20 18:6 
21:5,17,17 
22:15,18 

agency's 22:24 
agree 6:4 13:12 

21:25 45:7 

agreements 

51:25 

21:21 

applies 10:6 
15:8 16:11 

51:17 

apply 5:18 22:20 

agrees 24:5 
ahead 21:15 
ahold 49:24 50:2  applying 16:21 
AL 1:6,8,11 
albeit 14:10 
allow 44:20 

20:5 26:23 
appropriate 

11:15 15:15,19 
16:1 28:22 
37:3 38:4 39:8 

allows 51:11 
alterations 9:23  area 7:4,23 
13:12 17:1 
42:5 

9:25 

ambiguity 16:20 
ambiguous 
16:14,16 

areas 7:4,5 
argue 49:8 

American 37:12  argued 51:23 
arguing 33:18 
amount 10:10 
argument 1:16 
12:12,14 33:2 
33:23 34:24 
48:18 

analogy 30:1 

33:5 49:4 54:2 
announce 11:2 
answer 13:14 
20:13 26:2 
43:25 

answers 20:14 
antidumping 
3:15,20 5:18 
15:22 16:9 
26:24 27:19 
28:9,23 34:1 
38:22 40:14 
51:5 

Antwerp 12:22 
anybody 4:25 
apart 22:25 
apparent 54:14 
apparently 

APPEARAN... 

33:15 

1:18 

apples 40:5,5 
applicability 

14:25 

2:2,9 3:4,7 
17:10 18:12 
27:4 47:12 
52:20 

arose 15:2 
arrangement 
10:12 14:1 
15:16 16:17 
arrangements 

8:17 15:24 
35:17 

articulable 

10:22 

articulate 10:17 
asking 6:22 44:8 

48:11 

assay 4:2,3,7 
12:2 35:20 
53:8 

assume 8:22 9:1 

18:12 36:15 
47:25 48:1,3 
assumes 30:17 
assuming 46:16 
attention 26:20 
authority 6:18 
available 20:14 

application 22:7  aware 21:24 
a.m 1:17 3:2 
applied 13:6 

B 

B 42:9,12,16 
43:8 48:4,5
back 5:14 6:1 

8:25 9:22 
10:19 13:15,16
13:21 14:2 
18:21 20:8 
22:16 24:3,7
32:14 36:18,22
38:1 39:4 
40:12 48:20 
50:14 54:15 

bag 30:3,5
bailment 5:5 
balance 17:6 
ball 23:16 
bank 49:4,5,7,8

49:14,17,18

banking 16:12 
bankrupt 50:1 

50:11 

bargain 3:24 
BARTOW 1:22 

2:5 17:10 

based 4:11 6:24 

50:20 

basic 46:14 
basically 8:18 
batch 8:25 11:23 

40:10 

bearing 35:2 
beginning 20:12 
behalf 1:20,22

1:24 2:4,6,8,11
3:8 17:11 27:5 
52:21 

believe 7:11 
16:24 20:16 
25:13 34:18 

beneficial 15:24 
benefit 36:14 
bet 42:24 
bets 50:19 
better 20:4 

21:11 22:12 
36:21 

big 18:21
bills 49:7
bit 13:4 33:9 
blank 18:25
bothering 18:10

18:14

bottom 41:11
boundless 51:6
box 49:20
breach-of 53:4
breach-of-con... 

53:15

break 10:15
Breyer 4:20

5:10,21 6:4,21 
7:3,18 18:9 
19:6,10,14,18
19:21 21:2
27:14 42:4,19
43:25 44:11,15
44:24 46:5
49:23 50:4
Breyer's 27:8
brief 5:4 19:11 

19:16 20:22
28:1 30:16
37:23 42:23
45:1 52:25
briefly 51:1
briefs 20:19

bring 33:7,8,9

51:15

49:5

broadly 51:9
broken 9:20
brother 18:15
brought 5:25

49:7

business 10:22

50:18,22

businessman

6:6

buy 29:4 34:19 
buyer 33:20
buying 5:2 9:15 
buys 34:15

36:15

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

28:24 49:12 
50:10 52:17 
55:7 

20:2 21:2,21 
22:14 27:20 
29:10 39:17 
chip 28:3,5 
42:6,9,10,13 
42:17,20,24,25  choice 21:11 
43:6 45:15 
43:5,6 44:12 
choices 21:10 
45:21 46:1,13 
choose 4:5 35:6 
52:7 54:17 

cash 4:1,6 14:2 

23:9 29:17 
31:10 33:9,10 
34:8 36:1 54:5 

35:23 43:19 
45:12 

choosing 35:25 

27:19 28:11 
29:13 37:6 
39:18 51:4 

combination 4:1 
combinations 

4:6 

29:17 32:1,3 
33:6 36:21 
47:23 53:1 
comes 18:21 
30:4 34:7 
38:17 

36:4 43:12 
categories 21:14  chose 43:13 
chosen 43:13 
chunk 12:21 
circuit 14:8,9,13  coming 35:18 

comfortably 

4:16 

53:22 

common 5:4 

6:13,15 16:21 
25:21,25 26:2 
26:5,8,9,13
47:17 

42:9 

companion

38:20 

company 13:24 

28:2,3,6,10
29:2,3 34:11 
37:21,23 38:2 
42:1,16 
company's

come 5:14 22:14  companies 37:5 

B's 48:6,16,24 

C 
C 2:1 3:1 
CAITLIN 1:24 

2:7 27:4 

calculate 43:14 
calculating 

43:11 

call 34:3 53:11 
called 7:19 

27:16 28:13 
37:22 

Canada 5:13 
candor 14:23 
capture 40:21 

45:12 

car 33:4,6,8,10 
33:10 54:6,8,9 

care 46:20 
carry 9:12 
carve 12:22 
car-refurbish... 

21:19,19 
cause 27:12 
central 52:25 
certain 22:9 
24:22 26:17 
32:19 37:22 
certainly 6:19 

11:15 41:7 
47:1,23 

14:20 15:7,17 
17:25 21:13 
45:6 52:15 
circumstance 

5:6 17:22 
22:19 44:5 
53:14 

chain 41:21 
chamber 29:20 
chance 20:16 

54:7 

54:6 

52:12 

26:16 

cite 29:10 

49:16 53:15 

claim 20:17 

changed 37:16 

character 4:15 

circumstances 
11:18 17:20 
21:11 22:8 
25:25 53:4 

28:1 45:1 
51:14 

change 18:21 
19:8 29:15 
30:22,22 49:11  cited 7:9 18:18 

case 3:4,12 5:1 
6:22 8:12 11:5 
13:7,8 14:10 
14:20,23 15:2 
17:17 18:15 
19:1 20:7,17 
21:5,12,13,17 
21:18 22:1,1,6 
23:18,24 24:10  characterize 
24:23 25:19 
27:12,24,25 
28:4 29:5,6,8 
34:16 37:7 
charge 35:10 
39:5,5 41:20 
charged 18:6 
42:3 43:16 
check 8:18 
44:23,25 45:11  Chevron 21:8 
45:25 51:24 
21:21,25 22:8 
54:14,24 55:8  Chief 3:3,10 
55:9 
10:17 11:10 
cases 7:25,25 
12:19 13:3 
13:6 14:18 
10:10,12 
17:7,13 22:23 
15:11 18:24 
23:10,13 24:17  coats 24:21 
19:1,15,22 
cognizable 
25:6 27:1,3,6 

client 19:3,3 
close 16:24 
cloth 9:17 10:8 

26:1 32:4,7 
53:6 

characterized 

4:16 

clearly 9:19 25:9 
26:5,13 46:23 

51:7 

28:16 

25:15 

competitor 

competition

compare 28:12 
comparison 
34:9 35:18 
38:25 

commerce 3:18 
5:17,19,22 6:2 
6:7,8,11,20 
7:15 8:1 9:8 
10:25 11:1,4 
13:1,8 16:1 
17:1 18:6,12 
18:18,19,24 
19:8,11 20:9 
20:21 23:19 
24:11 25:1,3,8 
complete 4:6 
25:13 26:6,23 
completely 36:4 
27:10,15,17 
complies 53:9 
28:5,7,12 29:8 
29:12 36:11,24  comply 20:20 
37:3,19 38:3 
39:7,17 42:13 
42:25 43:6 
44:22 51:11 
54:17 55:2,5 

28:17 40:2,3
concedes 52:2 
conceivable 

components

competitors

16:1 

17:3 19:23 
21:22 22:13 
24:24 

commercial 

29:21 

concentrated 
32:6,21 33:1 
34:2 

20:25 26:16,19  concentrating

commodities 

35:19 

23:23 

concept 44:17 
commodity 32:4  concern 13:4 

36:1 46:3 47:9 
47:14 50:9 

concerns 51:25 
concluded 3:20 

clarify 50:5 
classic 16:17,17 
classify 18:13 
clear 22:3 25:21  Commerce's 9:2  concentrate 

45:24 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

29:12 38:3 

concluding 7:13 
confront 15:7 
confronted 

22:19 

Congress 3:19 
16:19 22:16 
39:2 52:4 
conjure 8:9 
consequences 

48:14 

consider 43:7 
consideration 
4:9,19 14:5 
15:20 17:23 
23:8 33:7 54:4 
considerations 

considered 43:7 

consistently 

4:11 

43:9 

52:4 

constantly 30:16 
constructed 
41:4 45:2 

construction 

16:15 

consume 41:25 
contains 12:21 
contend 16:10 
16:14 54:10 
contest 33:25 
context 19:7 

47:12 

continuous 32:8 
contract 3:25 

contracting 
15:14,21,23 
53:21 

contracts 3:14 
3:17,21 13:17 
14:25 16:7 
24:12 26:21 
31:7,8 32:4,7 
32:17 34:9,22 
35:1,4,6 36:10 
50:16,24 52:9 
52:9 

contradiction 

55:3 

control 23:20 
49:25 54:23 

controlling 

54:11 

controls 55:5 
corollary 53:19 
correct 7:24 
8:13 11:14 
16:4 

cost 9:17 10:16 

35:2 

counsel 27:1 
count 40:14 
countervailing 

38:21 39:1 
51:10 

country 6:1 

41:11 

court 1:1,16 

3:11,23 11:15 
15:16 17:14 
18:5 21:6,9 
27:7 44:8,21 
52:4 

14:24 15:8,12 
15:18 16:2 
26:22,25 32:10  courts 26:18 
32:22,23 33:22  covered 3:14 
12:25 34:1 
33:25 34:4,4,5 
34:15,23 47:7 
52:10 54:21 
covers 38:22 
49:10 52:5 
53:5,7,20,23 
54:7 

39:1 

create 53:25 
created 20:7 
critical 24:18 

contracted 

53:17 

50:9 51:24 

customer 3:25 

4:5 5:24 13:15 
13:21 17:20,23 
18:2 23:4,6,17 
54:5,6,8 
customer's 

13:19 
cut 14:2 
cuts 8:18 
D 

depart 26:7 
department 

3:18 5:17 6:7,8 
7:15 8:1 9:9 
27:9,15 28:4,7 
29:7,12 36:11 
36:15,19,24 
37:3,12,19 
38:3 39:17,22 
40:18,23 42:13 
51:11 

Department's 

11:4 

32:22 

depended 5:6 
depending 

D 3:1 
Dakota 5:12 
date 32:20 
day 30:15 
days 32:20,22 
deal 29:16 
dealer 33:7,10 
dealership 54:6  described 10:16 
dealing 20:12 
26:3 54:19 

depleted 12:18 
deposit 49:20 
Deputy 1:19 

26:22 

difficulties 

17:16 

diffusion 29:20 

32:25 

direct 7:4 
disadvantage 

15:25 

disagree 31:7 
38:16 46:2 

disagreeing 36:6 

48:9 

disavowed 

14:22 

discreet 48:18 
discretion 4:5,9 
8:21 9:9 11:8 
11:13,22,24 
12:1 17:3,4 
25:16 

dealt 6:11 11:7 

discrimination 
16:11 39:21 
40:5 

34:17 53:25 
design 7:10,11 
7:13,16,17 8:2 
23:3 
discuss 19:23 
8:3 28:2,6 
decide 11:8 21:9  determination 
disposal 52:11 
21:15 55:4,5 
dispute 13:9 
3:22 4:11 6:2 
decided 19:25 
47:16 48:21 
7:9 9:3 11:1,4 
11:13 21:18,22  disputes 14:24 
14:24 15:8,12 
55:6 
15:14,21 52:5 
disregard 24:11 

decision 6:7 
14:8 21:4 

determine 13:5 

decisions 20:21 

53:10 

40:4 

developed 46:21  distinct 36:9 
diamond 12:21 

38:20,25 

52:5 

deem 13:17 
deemed 23:20 

54:9 

11:20 33:24 

14:17 33:4 
35:6 39:2 
distinguish 

12:22,25 13:22  distinction 5:5 
13:24 14:1,2 
difference 4:25 
10:3 29:2,10 
47:8 

deeming 54:10 
defer 22:23 
deference 21:8 
21:21 26:10,14  different 8:25 
defined 11:3 
9:22 13:16 
defines 41:3 
14:2,11 17:18 
definition 45:2 
20:10 23:18,23  dollars 18:17 
deliver 32:19,23 
25:24 29:22,24  domestic 15:25 
34:21 36:4 
39:11 42:3 
47:9 50:18 
differently 

24:20 25:14 
29:2 45:23 
51:7 

dog 44:4 
doing 24:3 35:13 
dollar 49:6 

31:19 33:20 
delivers 23:6 

dominantly 14:9 

delivered 30:21 

50:17 53:7 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

doubt 36:15 
downstream 
29:14 38:5 
44:6 45:12 
drives 4:24 
due 48:10 
dumping 40:24 

40:25 45:24 
duties 51:10 
duty 3:15,20 
38:21 39:1 

D.C 1:13,20,22 

E 
E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 21:3,21 
early 14:20 
easier 11:6 
economic 4:11 

10:13 16:3 
30:11 50:23 
economically 

30:6 

EDP 34:4 
effect 25:14 35:9 

35:23 

effectively 45:7 
efficacious 

16:25 

efficiently 33:17 
efforts 26:20 
eggs 37:25 
either 11:1 12:3 
18:13 21:14,18 
28:17 36:2 
43:12 45:23 
53:20 

electric 30:24 
elevator 29:25 
30:2,3 47:2 
49:21 

emphasis 15:18 
emphasize 

25:18 

enacted 40:22 
ended 31:17 
ends 48:5 

energy 33:23 
enforcing 18:7 
engage 36:8 

engaged 50:19 
enormously 

50:8 

22:3 

enrich 33:17 
enriched 3:13 
3:22 4:3,8,13 
12:2,10,17 
13:18 33:20 
34:2,4,24 
38:18 53:8 

enricher 4:8,10 
8:12,15 9:14 
11:7 12:1,3 
13:17 20:17 
29:21,24 31:9 
34:5,7,14,15 
34:18,23 35:2 
35:18 47:2 
48:5 53:1,9,10 

enrichers 8:9 
30:14 33:2 
50:22 

essential 28:17 
essentially 18:2 

19:24 20:13 
23:15 44:9 
54:17 

establishes 39:9 

39:13 

ET 1:6,8,11 
Eurodif 1:6,11 

3:4,5 

Europe 40:9,10 
European 36:25 

37:11 

event 15:10 
eventual 28:9 
everybody 
13:19 24:5 
evidence 22:1 
exact 5:11 
exactly 6:11 7:7 

7:20 8:22 
10:13 20:11 
25:15 31:3 
example 9:8 
25:25 27:25 
33:5 36:21 
37:18 40:8 
51:9 

enricher's 53:6 
enriching 47:4 
enrichment 10:7  exchange 4:19 

12:15 13:9 
15:19 48:19 
entering 15:23 
entire 30:18 

46:3 

entities 36:4 
entitled 50:14 

55:6 

entity 15:10 
24:20,21 

entrusted 3:19 
equally 10:6 
46:20 54:14 

equipment 7:13 
equivalent 5:7 
especially 53:21 
ESQ 1:19,22,24 

2:3,5,7,10 

exclusively 35:5 

16:18 

51:18 

exercising 54:23 
exist 41:21 

53:22 

expected 22:16 
expended 33:23 
expensive 32:4 

50:7 

explained 5:4 
28:11 39:18 
explains 45:1 
explanation 

28:8 

explicitly 41:12 
export 28:13 

41:3,4 45:2,2 

extensive 3:21 
extent 25:2 
40:16 41:9 
extreme 9:7 

F

facility 22:9
fact 5:11 7:16 

8:1 11:6 13:20 
15:18 22:4
24:6 29:10
33:16 34:13,19
40:8 47:8,17

factor 24:18
facts 8:22 9:7 
factual 22:11
fails 41:20
fair 41:8
fall 21:13,18
falseness 54:12
farmer 4:22 8:7 

8:11 30:8

farmers 5:12

49:21

farmer's 30:2,5
Farr 1:22 2:5 

17:9,10,13
19:5,9,16,20
19:23 21:20,23
22:2 23:1,12
25:1,8,18,24
26:11,15 27:2 
42:21

feasibly 29:24
Federal 3:15,19

14:8,9,13,20
15:1,2,7,9,17
17:25 21:13
45:6 52:15

feed 4:1 29:18 
29:19,25 30:3 
30:5,15 32:19 
32:24 33:3,15
33:17,19,25
34:6,11,20,25
35:2,16,17
36:7,8 45:18 

47:3,3 48:18 
50:8,17 53:12 
feedstock 4:1,6 
8:9,15,16,18 
11:9 12:3,16
13:19 23:25 
30:20,22 54:13 
54:15 

feedstocks 4:12 
fewer 12:4 53:12 
fiction 24:12 
fictions 26:25 
figure 22:5 
file 53:15 
final 4:4 43:14 

53:13 

finally 51:20 
54:16 55:2 
financial 8:17 
find 18:18 19:15 
19:18,19 45:5 

finished 5:25 
7:12 39:19 
42:10 

finishing 10:1 
first 19:10 26:1 

29:7 32:18 
41:5 44:20 
47:15 54:19 
five 49:6 50:12 

50:14 

flanges 29:11 
Florida 14:9,12
14:22 15:17 
19:1 21:3,4
flour 11:22,23

11:25 

fluctuating 13:5 
fluctuation 35:9 

35:11,23

fluctuations 
35:3 50:20 

focus 20:4 51:22 
following 43:21 
foreign 18:17 
24:21 29:3 
41:11 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

forget 34:16 
form 5:8 13:15 

15:16 16:2 
54:10 

formality 28:25 
formed 53:23 
former 29:5 
formerly 48:16 

48:24 

forms 17:2 
forth 10:19 
found 18:24 
20:6 33:16 

7:14 8:4 
four 50:13 
France 8:25 

47:10 

foundry 7:12,12 

free 4:10 19:4 
frequently 7:10 
fuel 35:7 41:25 
fundamental 
3:24 10:20 

funds 8:19 
fungibility 
25:12 29:9 

fungible 8:3,23 

10:20 11:7 
24:9 25:4 29:1 
29:12,18 32:15 
36:20 46:15 
further 20:8 

51:4 

G 

G 3:1 
gas 29:19,23 

31:23 

gaseous 29:20 
gauge 45:14 
general 1:19 

generally 16:22 

24:9 

53:25 

getting 13:15,16 
24:3,6,8 45:19 
45:19 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Ginsburg 14:7 

21:3 52:6 

give 7:21 10:9 
10:10 37:18 

49:18 

5:23 8:6,8 
11:21,24 29:25  holding 9:3 39:5 
holds 47:3 48:17 
30:2 47:2 
home 19:4 28:16 
49:21,22 

given 4:13 21:10  grains 11:22 

48:5,5 

38:1 53:17 

gray 13:12 
gives 29:3 36:14  ground 30:9 
guess 12:23 
guy 43:20 
H

imported 28:14 

38:12 

impose 51:11 
impractical 30:6 
improved 13:23 
incarnation 

15:5 

incident 6:11 
indicated 17:16 

19:10 

indisputably

14:6 

24:23 

indistinguisha... 

individual 11:22 
individuals 

40:19 

industries 27:13 
industry 27:12 

51:7 53:11 

initially 51:23 
innocent 20:23 
input 8:4 
inputs 55:1 
installation 

29:21 

instance 18:19 
instructs 39:22 

instrumentality

41:12 

15:4 

insurance 16:12 
integrity 51:17 
intellectual 7:16 

8:2 

51:14 

40:21 

intellect0ual 

intended 16:20 

intent 32:8 
intentions 20:23 
interest 14:25 
interpret 22:13 
interpretation
22:24,25 23:2 
inventory 13:25 

24:10 

36:25 

honest 22:4 
Honor 21:23 
27:24 31:6 
32:17 34:22 
38:17 39:16 
41:1 44:19 
46:25 49:4 
50:16 

house 7:11,13 

7:16 8:2 

hypothetical 

5:23 8:7 11:21 
13:22 36:14 
37:9 48:12 
hypotheticals 

12:20 
I
idea 24:1
identical 4:22,25

5:15 26:4,7

identically 5:15
identified 8:24
identify 47:7
identifying

46:19

images 8:9
imagine 4:20
9:15 22:16
42:6

implemented

52:3

implies 15:13
import 51:12,12
important 9:12

21:12 23:22
42:4 50:6
51:22

importantly
29:15 30:14
importation
38:19 41:23

glittering 12:25 
go 11:13 33:11 
34:18 35:15 
43:20 44:7 
45:3,13 49:13 
50:10,19 

goes 22:6 34:6 

47:2 48:4 

going 5:17 10:5 
10:18,23 13:6 
23:7 24:11,13 
26:6,19,22 
42:23,25 43:3 
43:5 49:14 
53:24 

good 6:17 8:10 

17:22,24 18:20 
19:4 23:6,8,15 
23:20 28:14 

goods 7:15 9:1,4 

9:10,24 11:7 
14:16 18:3 
19:13 27:11 
29:9 51:13 
52:8,11 53:2 
54:1,21 
gotten 8:4 
government 

14:17 15:1,3,3 
33:5 45:6,11 
45:17 51:2,21 
51:23 52:4,8 
governmental 

15:5 

government's 
14:13,14 45:7 
governs 15:13 
grain 4:21,21,23 

4:24 5:12,13 

H 1:22 2:5 17:10 
haircuts 7:21
Halligan 1:24

2:7 27:3,4,6,23
29:7 30:10,13
30:25 31:6,22
32:12,17 33:21 
34:21 35:12,15
36:3,13 37:2,9 
37:13,18 38:10 
38:13,16 39:7 
39:15 40:16,20
41:1,18,23 
42:18 43:23 
44:2,14,19,25 
45:21 46:1,25 
47:15,22 48:2 
48:8,13,17,22 
48:25 49:3,18 
50:3,5,15 
52:18,24 54:3 

hand 25:11 
happen 30:13 
happening 20:2 
hard 13:5 42:5 
harvest 30:8 
hear 3:3 8:7 
hedge 35:11 
helpful 53:3 
herder 36:16 
Hey 44:12 
higher 35:24 

40:9 

hindsight 14:19 
historical 20:25 
hold 32:5,10,12 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

investigation 

3:21 

invidious 43:24 
involve 9:5 10:1 

46:8 

involved 6:6 
8:21 9:18 
14:15 21:17 
involves 4:17 

12:16 

involving 15:2 
isotope 35:19 
isotopes 29:22 

33:1 

issue 14:10 

39:11,15 50:6 
51:22 

Italian 42:15 
Italy 37:22 
item 9:5 33:11 

44:7 

i.e 36:1 42:14 

J 

J 1:24 2:7 27:4 
judges 16:21 
judgment 22:20 
Justice 3:3,10 
4:20 5:10,21 
6:4,13,17,21 
7:3,18 8:20 9:6 
9:21 10:3,17 
11:10 12:5,11 
12:19 13:3 
14:7 16:4,13 
16:19 17:7,13 
18:9 19:6,10 
19:14,18,21 
21:2,3,20,25 
22:23 23:10,13 
24:17 25:6,17 
25:20 26:2,9 
26:12 27:1,3,6 
27:8,14,20 
28:24 30:7,12 
30:16 31:3,13 
32:9,14 33:14 

34:12 35:8,13 
35:21 36:13 
37:8,10,15 
38:8,11,14 
39:4,11 40:7 
40:17,23 41:15 
41:19 42:4,19 
43:25 44:11,15 
44:24 45:16,22 
46:5,12 47:6 
47:19,25 48:3 
48:6,11,15,19 
48:23 49:1,12 
49:23 50:4,10 
52:6,17 55:7 

justify 26:8 

K 
keep 19:3 
KENNEDY 
21:25 47:25 
48:3,11,15,19 
48:23 49:1 

key 44:16 
kind 7:22 13:4 
17:17,21 22:9 
33:24 46:8 
54:5 

kinds 17:23 

19:12 34:22 
52:8,13 

knitted 36:18 
knitters 37:1 
knitting 36:25 

40:8,24 

know 5:14 6:5 
6:21 7:18,20 
10:23 18:23 
31:1,4,18 
34:17 39:2 
42:22 45:19,23 

L

L 1:19 2:3,10 

3:7 52:20
labor 9:18
language 22:21

27:16 

large 29:21 
law 3:15,20 5:4 
6:13,15 16:21 
16:22 22:13 
25:21,25 26:2 
26:5,8,9,13,24 
27:19 28:9 
40:15 42:15,16 
47:17 51:6,10 
51:10 

laws 34:1 51:9 
lawyer 18:15 

19:2 

leaves 49:25 
left 33:17 
legal 19:7 22:7 

48:13,13 

legislation 52:3 
let's 36:15 47:25 

50:11 

LEU 24:1 41:24 
level 55:3 
license 51:6 
light 14:23 
15:17 19:1 
21:4,5 22:14 
lighter 33:10 
limitless 17:3 
line 22:3,5 41:11 
link 41:21 
little 33:9 
logic 6:1 
look 15:15 16:1 
16:2 17:19,22 
17:24 18:1 
23:22,23 24:14 
28:22 31:7,24 
31:25 33:4 
36:2 39:22 
40:5,17 41:6 
41:12 42:22,23 
42:24 43:5 
47:17 

looked 37:19,20 

39:17 

looking 35:21,22 

36:11 

loophole 20:7 

51:20 
lost 12:5 
lot 14:25 15:17 
19:21 42:24 

lots 4:21,21 

29:24 

25:21 29:18 
53:10 

mean 4:3 7:8 
17:3 22:8,10 
22:15 28:25 
31:14 43:3,18 
45:10 48:13 
50:11 

low 34:2 38:18  meaning 47:12 
lower 41:10 

means 38:24 
39:2 45:3 

M

maintain 32:8
major 42:12
making 11:21

38:4

MALCOLM

1:19 2:3,10 3:7 
52:20

manage 35:7,9
manufacture
33:16 54:25
manufactured

7:12 24:8 28:5 

manufacturer

23:5,7,19
24:10 37:21

manufacturing

margins 16:17

45:9

17:4

market 28:16
33:3,12,19
34:6,14,19
35:16 50:19
mask 7:11,17

8:3

material 11:12
23:4,5,9,17,25
24:2,3,7,9,13
24:16,19 25:4 
26:4,7 47:10 
materials 9:13
10:19 17:21
28:7,19 29:1 

matter 1:15
23:10 24:5

mentioned 21:3 
merchandise 

3:17 4:18 9:19 
16:9 20:3,4
22:18,22 23:14 
25:10,11,16
38:22,24 41:5 
41:13 44:10 
46:2 53:20 
merge 10:21 
milk 37:25 
mill 4:21 30:4,8 
milled 4:24 5:13 
miller 5:6,24 8:8 

8:12 11:21,21

millers 7:6 
mills 30:7 37:11 

40:8,24

mine 50:14 
minutes 52:18 
misleading

53:19 

mix 30:23 
mixed 32:15 
modified 13:15 
molecular 29:22 
molecule 5:15 
molecules 4:25 
30:25 31:11,14
31:16,23 47:23 
monetary 31:18
money 29:4 49:4 

49:4,9,14,15
49:20

month 29:22
morning 17:16 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

mouth 43:4 
moves 23:16 
mutually 15:24 

onwards 43:19 
open 33:3,19 

34:14 

opening 5:4 
operate 4:23 

50:16 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
name 15:13 
operation 45:9 
narrow 17:19 
operative 48:9 
narrowest 23:1 
opposite 42:20 
nature 24:14,15  oral 1:15 2:2 3:7 
necessarily 
26:17 27:23 
necessary 12:9 
need 13:24 
26:10,13 31:24  original 9:5 
31:25 51:17 
Neither 13:3 
new 1:24 17:2 

12:16 13:23 
54:15 

other's 46:17 
23:14,20 33:10  outlined 20:11 
54:8 

normally 9:1 
North 5:12 
noted 13:8 
notion 51:3,16 
November 1:14 
number 31:11 

32:20 
N.Y 1:24 
O 
O 2:1 3:1 
objective 53:24 
obligation 5:7 

53:7,10 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

13:8 16:15 
22:8,19 26:3 
26:21 51:24 
particularly 

21:12 

perspective 

54:16 

Petitioner 1:4 

practice 20:4 
precedent 19:24 

19:25 20:9 

1:20 2:4,11 3:8  precedents 7:4,8
52:21 

precise 23:5 
precisely 10:18 

parties 13:9 

Petitioners 1:9 
1:23 2:6 17:11 

15:14,16,21,23 
24:12 26:20,25  phrase 22:25 
29:16 32:1 
34:3 

16:2 29:19 

physical 8:10,15 

predominantly

11:3 

35:5 

preferable

35:24 

premise 48:9 
premium 35:10 
prepared 12:20 

13:25 

present 11:17,18

13:11,13 

presented 3:12 

17:10 27:4 

partly 54:5,5 
order 4:6 16:25  party 26:24 

physically 8:11 
pick 20:13 
pieces 33:7 
20:20 35:11 
45:5 50:8 51:4  party's 46:17,21  pizza 19:1 

43:20 

pasta 37:20,22 
37:25,25 38:1 
38:5,5,6,11 
39:4,20 42:2 
44:6 46:10 

place 37:22 53:9 
placed 15:17 
plant 29:23 

31:12 

plausible 20:14 

14:10 

output 12:8 
outset 4:19 14:6 
overall 4:15,16 
overfeed 53:11 
overseas 5:24,25  paying 35:24 

pay 10:8,8,11,14  please 3:11 
17:14 27:7 
plus 4:1 14:1 
presume 33:18 
point 10:5 18:11  pretty 6:17 42:4 

26:19 33:22 
35:10,25 36:4 
54:25 

presumably

37:24 

19:2 20:22 
21:7 46:5 48:6  previously 9:13 
49:1,23 

prevent 15:23 

55:4 

payment 14:5 

46:3 

33:8 

31:20 32:15 
36:16 

owned 30:18 
owner 23:21 
ownership 

pays 34:8 45:19  posit 24:1 
people 7:21 

30:22 31:5,15 
32:8 46:13,23 
47:5 49:9,11 
49:13 53:22 

10:22 43:17 
50:12 

percent 35:1 
percentage 4:3 

P 

42:22 

P 3:1 
page 2:2 19:14 

observe 26:25 
obtain 41:10 
obtained 34:14 
obtaining 41:9 
obviously 17:17  pages 42:23 
42:5 
occur 33:13 
odds 47:20 
offshore 50:7 
Okay 19:5 41:15 

Pardon 26:11 
part 7:16 8:1 

paid 4:10 53:16 

54:4 

perfectly 20:23 

performance 

34:2 

37:2 

3:16 

24:4,7 

performing 

27:17 

performs 34:6 

50:4 

old 30:7 
onward 42:1 

9:23 36:9 39:1  permissibly 
45:8 

6:20 

particular 4:7 
11:23 12:2,9 

person 6:25 9:22 
31:19 43:16,20 

policy 19:8,11 

position 14:13 
14:14,19,22 
21:9 24:25 
26:23 27:11 
42:21 43:18 
45:8 

positional 35:19 
positions 18:8 
possession 8:10 

8:16 32:6 

possible 17:19 
21:10 22:17 

potentially 

53:19 

power 14:9,12 
14:22 15:17 
18:13 19:1 
21:4,4 

price 9:16,20

16:11 28:13,13 
28:13,15,20
33:21 34:24
35:3,9,11,23
35:24 39:9,13
39:21,22,24
40:1,4,9,18
41:2,3,4,4,10
41:13 43:11,15
45:2,3 50:20 
principles 17:2

20:20 32:20 
privatized 15:6
problem 20:11

44:3

proceed 50:24
process 10:1,7

12:15,15 13:9 
32:5,25 35:7 

performed 24:2  possibility 26:18  prior 19:11

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

46:17 54:24 
processed 5:8 
8:24 36:17 
37:25 46:22 
processing 5:2 
27:10 28:19 
29:13 34:7 
36:10 37:13,15 
37:17,20 38:5 
39:16 41:9 
43:21 45:3,8 
45:13 46:7 
51:18 52:9 
processor 5:7 
28:4,11,16 
35:10 37:23 
43:8 44:13 
processors 

27:16 49:24 
51:4 

procure 35:16 

36:8 50:20 

procures 34:6 

34:25 

procuring 35:7 
produce 12:2 

53:12 

38:19 

promulgate 

properly 7:14 

11:2 

18:5 

properties 29:19 
property 7:17 
8:2,3 51:14 
52:11 

proportions 

4:12 

proposition 

54:13 

protect 26:24 

51:7,16 

protection 51:13 
provide 28:17 

29:18 32:13,18 
32:18 33:1,22 
45:18 50:16 
provided 5:24 

7:11 9:14 28:2 
28:5 32:21 
44:22 50:24 
provides 3:25 

8:14 23:4 
24:20 34:24 

produced 13:18  providing 8:8,8 
17:20,23 28:18 
34:10,13 

producer 7:15 

24:8 30:20 

11:7 17:21 
54:20 

product 4:4,18 

5:25 8:23 
10:21 13:23 
14:5 24:8 
27:21 28:15,18 
28:21 29:14 
30:4 32:21 
34:4,8 38:17 
39:19,23 40:1 
40:6 41:2,8 
42:11,12 46:9 
46:14,15,21 
47:20 50:2 
53:13,17 

products 37:24 

provision 3:13 
purchase 50:8 
purchases 47:3 
purely 20:24 
purport 11:1 
purpose 15:22 

51:2 

purposes 20:5 

28:8 40:14 
43:11 

pursuant 32:23 

34:3 35:16 
put 12:11,13 
29:20 30:23 
43:4 

p.m 55:9 

Q

quality 54:11 
quantity 4:2,7
4:13 12:2,9
53:8 

question 3:12,16

6:22,24,24
8:21 13:14 
14:24 15:7 
18:5,10,11
19:7 20:12 
21:1,7,8 22:11 
23:18 27:9 
28:25 39:7 
41:1 51:21 
54:20 

questions 17:15 

52:16 

quotas 51:11 

R

R 3:1 
raises 21:2 
raw 9:13 10:19 

11:12 14:1 
17:20 23:4,5,9 
23:16,25 24:9 
25:4 28:6,19 
29:1 36:15,17 
47:9 

reach 52:11 
reactors 41:25 
read 19:14 
readily 21:14 

23:3 

reading 14:12 
ready 20:13 
real 13:20 
reality 16:3 
realized 14:19 
really 9:6 24:13 

36:14 46:15 
51:18 52:25 
reason 15:2,11 
34:18 35:25 
39:18 50:23,23 
reasonable 3:23 

6:25 18:7 21:9 
26:16 

reasonably 

17:18 23:19 
reasons 20:25 

35:4 47:1 

REBUTTAL 

2:9 52:20 
receive 33:2 

received 4:9 

54:15 

53:16 

receives 4:2 

13:21,22 54:8 
receiving 17:24 

recommend 

reconcilable 

18:2 

44:21 

15:12 

reexamine 20:1 
referenced 
37:22 52:6 

referred 12:17 

27:15 28:1 
refers 44:10 
reflect 40:2 
refurbished 

54:10 

regard 25:10 

52:13,13 

regarded 25:9 
regarding 29:11 

51:13 52:7 

regardless 14:3 

24:19 

regime 10:24 
regulation 11:2 

19:12 54:17 

7:23 

relates 52:7 
relative 4:12 
relevant 18:11 

54:21 

reliance 20:18 
relied 7:15 8:1 

14:9 51:21

relies 51:3
rely 26:14
remain 16:25
remaining 52:19
remand 44:21
remember

44:11

rendition 14:15
representing

15:4

request 40:4
requires 16:9,14

28:12 30:11
38:7

resale 20:3
reserve 17:5
residue 12:18
resolution 3:15

15:13 

resolved 16:20 
resolving 15:21
respect 13:13

30:1 32:2
45:17 48:10
51:20 54:2
Respectfully

31:6

responded 19:7
Respondent

42:14

respondents

1:25 2:8 17:25 
24:1 27:5
43:18

response 44:22
responses 44:19
responsibility

22:13

13:10

results 3:17 54:1 
retain 25:15

49:9,13

return 4:2 5:7 

46:5

returned 27:21

related 6:6 7:4,5  result 3:22

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

secondly 20:15 

45:5 47:17 
Section 41:3 
see 19:21 42:24 

43:2 

segregate 29:24 
segregated 

31:23 

sell 33:12,19 
40:11 41:8 
42:1,1,2,2 

selling 5:2 40:8 

40:11 

setting 26:16,19 
sewing 9:18 
sheep 36:16 
shipment 8:23 

shipped 36:18 

8:24 

50:12 

shoehorn 36:11 
Show 49:14 
side 18:25,25 

22:5 

sides 20:10 
sign 44:8 

sells 40:18 42:10  significant 19:8 
semiconductor 

silica 28:5 
simply 8:17 24:6  staff 53:12 

source 8:5 22:10 
sources 48:4 
SOUTER 33:14 
34:12 35:8,13 
35:21 

speaking 25:2 
specific 20:15 
specifically 

51:22 

specified 4:2 

53:7,8 

spun 36:17 
squarely 9:3 
squares 31:8 
SRAMs 7:10,24 

standard 22:7 
start 27:8 
starts 43:23 
States 1:1,3,16 
3:4,18 16:10 
28:14,21 38:6 
38:12,18,23 
39:6,10,14,20 
39:23 40:6,12 
41:3,5,14,17 
41:22,24 42:11 
43:10 44:4 
48:20 

stationary 22:10 
statute 14:11 

15:13,22 16:9 
16:10,24 18:7 
18:16 20:5 
28:12,23 36:12 
38:7,19,20,21 
38:21,22 39:1 
39:21 40:21,21
41:12 44:9,10
44:20 45:10 
51:2,5,17
52:13 

statutes 5:18 

5:20 6:3,20 9:1  scope 8:21 
9:4,9,19,24,24 
10:14,15 11:3 

second 53:18 

54:22 

26:12 

sort 7:21 13:4 

51:8,13 52:10 
statutory 22:20 
15:8 29:9 34:5  Stevens 8:20 9:6 
9:21 10:3 16:4 
39:25 50:18 

47:10 

reverse 45:6 
reviewing 14:8 
rewrite 51:17 
rewriting 44:9 
right 12:14 16:6 

27:22 30:9 
31:3 32:11 
35:12 40:20 
41:17 42:8,19 
44:4 53:5 

rights 7:17 8:2 

51:14 

risk 35:3,9,23 
road 45:14 
ROBERTS 3:3 

10:17 11:10 
12:19 13:3 
17:7 22:23 
23:10 24:17 
25:6 27:1,3 
28:24 49:12 
50:10 52:17 
55:7 

rock 12:21,24 
rod 30:20 
rods 30:19 32:11 

45:20 

roughly 19:18 
rugs 42:2 
rule 6:25 
rules 16:21,22 
run 30:2,3,5 

32:24 

Russians 52:1 
Rya 42:2 
S 
S 2:1 3:1 
safe 49:20 
safeguards 

51:10 

sake 18:12 
sale 4:17 5:5,17 

11:19 14:3,16 
16:18 18:22 
20:4,8 21:22 
22:17,21,25 
23:8,14 25:9 
25:10,16,23 
26:5,13 27:18 
27:19 28:8,9 
28:10,11,22 
29:5,6,14,14 
30:17 33:5 
36:24 37:4,6 
37:11 38:6,9 
38:12,22 39:6 
39:14,19,19 
41:17,17,18,22 
43:7,7,8,9,10 
43:13,14,19 
44:6,10,17 
45:12,23 46:2 
46:23 51:12 
52:7,11 54:1,4 
54:20 

sales 3:22 16:6 
16:22 19:13 
25:22 38:4 
51:4,18 

saying 5:10,19 

14:18 18:1 
20:23 43:22 
44:4,12 48:6 
48:15 53:15 

says 9:16 29:3,4 

48:20 

SCALIA 6:13 
6:17 12:5,11 
27:20 30:7,12 
30:16 31:3,13 
32:9,14 36:13 
37:8,10,15 
38:8,11,14 
39:4,11 40:7 
40:17,23 41:15 
41:19 45:16,22 

28:2 29:3 
30:21 34:23 
35:25 39:13 
54:25 

single 44:5 
sit 22:16 
situation 5:11 
6:12 11:16 
15:15 20:15 
22:9 23:3,7 
25:13 26:6 

situations 22:17 

26:18 54:22 
sketching 9:12 
sliver 34:25 
small 34:1 
sold 3:17 16:9 

16:14 28:14,15 
28:21 34:3 
39:23 40:2,6 
41:2,5,13 

Solicitor 1:19 
somebody 30:23 

53:24 

somewhat 11:20 

42:3 

sorry 19:16 

44:23,25 

Semiconductors 

27:25 

send 5:12 9:22 
12:22 14:1,2 
18:20 

sends 36:16 

42:11 

sense 12:8 23:13 

32:9,10 

sent 8:25 47:10 
separate 12:9 

54:19 

separately 8:24 
separation 
12:15,16 

separative 3:14 
service 16:6 

18:2 24:2,4,7 
27:17,18 28:19 
29:13 34:7 
35:19 54:1 

servicers 7:22 
services 14:15 
15:19 16:11 
35:5 36:9 
38:25 41:9 
45:8 52:10 
53:1,21 54:7 
set 17:19 20:19 

20:24 22:8 
28:20 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

16:13,19 21:20 
25:17,20 26:2 
26:9,12 46:12 
47:6,19 48:6 

12:24 

substitute 47:11 
suddenly 5:16 
sufficient 23:20 

Stewart 1:19 2:3 

44:3 

table 29:17 32:1 

32:3 

tail 44:3 
tailor 9:16,16 
10:7,12,15 

suggest 6:2 7:5 
suggested 27:14  Taiwan 7:10 

tails 12:17 

41:16 42:12 
53:18 

things 6:6 7:19 

19:9 31:24 
32:18 52:24 
54:18 

think 5:1,22 6:1 
6:10 9:2,8,11 
10:25 11:3 
14:21 15:11 
16:19,23 21:3 
21:10,12 22:2 
22:12,18,21 
23:1,12,19,22 
25:1,3,8,24 
26:8,15 31:24 
31:25 36:23 
42:6,14,16,20 
42:21,21 46:25 
47:16,22,24 
49:7 51:21 
52:25 53:3,18 

thinking 7:18 
third 26:24 

46:21 

thought 6:8 7:1 

9:12 17:18 
19:2 20:1,3 
25:21 41:19 
three 7:4 52:18 

54:17 

thrust 11:3 
time 12:11,13 
13:25 15:3 
17:6 18:18 
32:6 33:8 
49:23,24,25 
53:9,23 

title 18:20 19:3 
31:16 32:5,11 
32:12 47:3,13 
47:21 48:7,16 
48:17,21,23 
49:2,8,15,19 
49:22 

today 55:5,5 
told 49:21 

tollee 54:23 
toller 7:25 42:6 
tollers 7:19,20 

7:22 27:16 

tolling 19:1,12 

19:24 43:5 
44:12 54:16 

tolls 39:3 
total 34:25 
touch 51:1 
touchstone 

11:11 

trade 33:6 51:9 
traded 54:9 
transaction 4:7 

4:16,19 6:9 
14:15 17:17 
22:20 23:24 
24:14,15 26:3 
27:18 30:11,18 
31:9 32:1 36:7 
37:14,15 39:8 
39:8,12 40:3 
40:13 44:7 
45:4,13 

transactions 
16:5 17:2 
19:13 20:19,24 
27:10 36:5 
45:17 46:7 
50:7 51:25 
52:14 

transfer 31:5,15 
31:15 46:13,22 
47:5,13 48:7 
49:2 

transferred 8:12 

30:23 47:21 
transfers 8:19 
transformation 
9:5 10:21 11:5 
11:12,17 13:2 
13:10,13 14:4 
23:11,15 24:20 
25:4,12 43:1 
44:16,18 46:4 
46:8 

27:25 44:22,25 
Taiwanese 28:3 
take 15:20 30:8 

32:6 33:1,3 
35:23 42:14 
49:5,6,19 
taken 18:8 
takes 4:23 29:22 

49:8 

talk 31:18 
talked 23:24 
talking 5:23 
7:22 22:7 
23:13 31:14,16 
31:17 37:10,11 
38:15 39:12,13 
40:1 

tangible 8:10 
target 38:4,19 
tariffs 51:12 
tell 31:1 42:5 

46:16,18 47:15 
47:20,23 

telling 40:13 
ten 49:5 
tension 55:3 
term 11:3 16:14 
terms 20:9 

28:23 31:18 
33:21 34:15 
45:9 

test 10:18,22 
11:2 13:5 

Thank 17:7 27:1 
27:2 52:17,23 
55:7 

theme 52:25 
thing 5:8 8:6 

10:11 13:15,16 
31:19 37:7 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

suppliers 35:17 
supplies 29:2 
supply 34:19 
37:12 40:18,23  Suppose 40:7 

2:10 3:6,7,10 
5:3,19,22 6:10 
6:15,19 7:2,7 
7:24 8:20 9:2 
9:11,25 10:5 
10:25 11:14 
12:7,14 13:1,7 
14:7,21 16:8 
16:16,23 17:8 
28:1 52:18,20 
52:23 55:8 
stock 53:12 
store 36:15,19 

strange 10:14 
stream 32:8 
strongly 51:3 
structure 26:20 
structured 35:5 
styled 15:18 
subcontractor 

subcontractors 

7:25 

7:23 

subject 10:23 
16:5 24:24 
41:5,13 

submit 17:15 
submitted 55:8 

55:10 

29:8 

suggests 6:19 

9:3 49:10 

suit 9:15,18,22 

10:6 

supplied 23:17 
supplier 8:18 

10:9,10 

supposed 22:18 
supposing 9:21 
Supreme 1:1,16 
sure 6:23 7:7 
12:19 13:1 
31:22 35:8 
46:14 

surprise 20:18 
sustained 3:23 
sweater 37:5 
39:20 42:1 
44:6 

sweaters 36:18 
36:19,21,25 
37:1 39:24 
40:9 

substance 10:13  SWU 3:14,16,21 
3:24 12:5,6,6,7 
14:25 

28:25 29:16 
31:8 

substantial 9:5 

SWUs 4:12 
10:2 11:5,8,11  SWU's 12:4 
11:17 13:2,10 
53:12,16 
13:13 14:4 
22:1 23:11,15 
25:4,12 43:1 
44:16,17 46:4 
46:8 

S.A 1:6,11 

system 32:25 

50:15 

T

substantially 

T 2:1,1

Official - Subject to Final Review 

transformed 

12:24 

transporting 

8:16 

treat 5:20 6:20 
9:4,9,24 13:2 
19:12 23:7 
25:16 26:22 
28:10 36:24 
37:4 39:9 

treated 6:9,14 
6:15 7:1,6,14 
9:1 27:10,15 
27:19 28:8 
tried 49:19 
trillions 18:17 
true 16:8 30:12 

30:21 33:15 
41:7 42:17,18 
42:20 46:12,24 
47:19 

uncertainly 

ultimately 22:12 

42:25 53:12 
25:14 30:18,20  USEC 1:8 3:5 
15:3,4,6 35:1 
used-car 54:2 
useful 49:3 
uses 17:21 27:17 

uncertainty 

13:11 

27:11 

understand 53:2 
29:21 33:6 
understood 54:3  utilities 8:8 
undoubtedly 

18:6 

unenriched 36:1 
unfair 20:18 
unfairly 15:25 
Uniform 25:22 
unit 3:14 12:7 
United 1:1,3,16 
3:4,18 16:10 
28:14,21 38:6 
38:12,18,23 
39:6,10,14,19 
39:23 40:6,12 
41:3,5,14,17 
41:22,24 42:11 
43:10 44:4 
48:20 

utility 3:25 4:10 

20:17 29:17 
31:10 32:3,19 
32:24 33:22 
34:10 35:6 
36:8 41:24,25 
43:17 50:7,17 
50:18 53:1,2 
54:25 

4:17 8:11,14 
8:17 13:17 
30:18,24 33:2 
34:7,19 45:18 
46:3 48:15,17 
48:20 50:1 
53:4,14,17 
54:14 

try 20:20 36:13 
trying 13:14 
20:13 22:5 
Tuesday 1:14 
turn 46:9,10 
universe 16:5 
turns 3:16 39:15  unjust 20:18 
two 10:22 14:18  unlinked 36:5 
unreasonable 

15:11 17:23 
18:8 21:14 
unrelated 36:5 
22:3 23:23 
29:16,22 31:24  uranium 3:13 
33:7 36:4,4,5 
42:9 43:12 
44:19 48:4 
two-by-fours 

36:23 

W 

wagging 44:3 
wait 30:4 40:7 
waiting 30:9 
walk 31:10 32:2 

33:9 

walks 31:9 34:8 
wallet 33:9 
want 9:24 11:16 
19:7 26:7 33:6 
wanted 9:7 20:1 
43:9,10 44:13 

word 16:14

42:25 44:17
words 43:4,4

44:12

work 3:14 12:7 
12:8,9 13:25 
29:23

world 13:20
worth 18:17

36:17,22

wouldn't 7:5
10:1 26:13
46:19

43:4

wrestling 20:10
written 51:8
wrong 14:20

Washington
1:13,20,22
wasn't 20:7 
way 6:14 7:6 
8:14 9:13 
10:16 18:1,13 
X
20:20 22:11,12  x 1:2,12
24:22 26:21 
27:9 29:23 
Y
30:3 31:1,23 
33:16 35:21,22  years 5:16 16:25 
36:2 38:20 
45:14 46:18 
50:16,25 53:23 

Yeah 34:12

18:16

York 1:24
$ 

weight 4:4 11:24 

11:25 

well-founded 

51:19 

went 19:24 

$1,000 36:17,22

37:16

$100 49:5
$20,000 36:22

37:5,17 40:10 
40:12

21:14 37:24 
$300 9:16,17
50:1 
we're 13:25 14:7  $40,000 40:11
we've 5:3 10:4 
$600 9:16 10:8 
31:13 

10:9,9,10

10:15

wheat 37:24
38:1 46:9

0

wide 12:20 13:6  07-1058 3:5
wonder 6:5 
wood 24:20 
wooden 24:21 
wool 36:15,17 
36:20,25 40:4 
40:10,12 46:10 

07-1059 1:5,21
2:4,11 3:4,9 
52:22

2:6 17:12

07-1078 1:10,23

U-235 4:4 
U.S 28:2,6,9,12  ways 17:19 
37:5 38:2 52:2  weaving 39:24 

V

v 1:5,10 3:4,5 
valid 53:4
valuable 34:10

34:13 36:1
46:20 50:9
value 27:21

37:16,16 39:25 
41:8

variety 12:20

13:6

varying 4:5
version 13:23
versus 28:25
view 18:7
violate 42:15,16
virtue 11:6
vis-a-vis 11:9

3:22 4:1,3,8,14 
10:7 12:3,10 
12:12,17,18 
13:18 31:11 
32:3,7,11,21 
32:24 33:20,25 
34:2,3,4,24 
36:2,7 38:18 
45:19 48:4,6 
48:16,18,21,24 
48:24 49:25 
50:12,13,20,21 
52:9 53:8 

use 11:23 12:3 
24:22 33:15 

24:21,22 

type 5:5 6:12 

23:4 

typically 11:24 

U 
U 32:15 
UCC 26:17 52:7 
ultimate 11:11 
35:24 53:24 
54:24 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

1

10's 49:5 
100 5:16 
11:06 1:17 3:2 
12:07 55:9 
1677(a) 41:3 
17 2:6 

2

20's 49:6 
2008 1:14 
235 12:12 32:16 
27 2:8 

3


3 2:4


4


4 1:14 
40 42:22 
41 42:22 
5


5 35:1 
52 2:11 
6

60 32:22

9


90 16:25 18:16 

32:22 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

