Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
ARIZONA, 
:
                        
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 07-1122 
                       
LEMON MONTREA JOHNSON. 
: 
          
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Tuesday, December 9, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:02 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
JOSEPH L. PARKHURST, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,

 Tucson, Ariz.; on behalf of the Petitioner. 

TOBY J. HEYTENS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor

 General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
 behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
 supporting the Petitioner. 

ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of

 the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
JOSEPH L. PARKHURST, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


TOBY J. HEYTENS, ESQ.


 On behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Petitioner 

              

19


ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

29


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

JOSEPH L. PARKHURST, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

60


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:02 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument first this morning in Case 07-1122, Arizona v. 
Johnson.

 Mr. Parkhurst.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH L. PARKHURST

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. PARKHURST:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may 

it please the Court:

 Petitioner asks that this Court apply the 

principles established in Pennsylvania v. Mimms to 
uphold the pat-down search of a vehicle passenger seized 
during a lawful traffic stop.  Mimms established that a 
traffic stop satisfies Terry's first prong as to 
suspicion of criminal activity, and it also established 
that a pat down of a driver is justified if the officer 
has a reasonable suspicion that the driver is armed and 
dangerous.

 Fourth Amendment searches must be 
reasonable, and the pat down in this case was 
reasonable.  And it is common -- it's a commonsense 
principle that the principles in Mimms also apply to 
passengers in the context of a traffic stop.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I didn't hear your first 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

-- in your opening.  Did you say that Mimms established 
that it's likely that he's armed and dangerous?  I 
missed that.

 MR. PARKHURST:  No, no.  That's not what I'm 

saying --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'm sure it wasn't, but I 

missed what you said on that point.

 MR. PARKHURST:  What I said is that Mimms 

establishes that a pat down is justified in the context 
of a traffic stop if the officer believes that the 
driver is armed and dangerous.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Thank you.
 MR. PARKHURST:  Correct.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Do you agree that 
there's a point in an interaction that begins with a 
traffic stop, begins with a seizure, at which the nature 
of that interaction is changed so that it's no longer --
so that it becomes a consensual interaction?

 MR. PARKHURST:  That -- yes, Chief Justice. 
That can happen in a traffic stop.  There's no evidence 
in this particular case that there was any kind of 
evolution to a consensual encounter.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Maybe I should 

rephrase the question.  Do you agree that it would be 
unconstitutional for an officer to conduct a pat down 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

after an initial seizure while that same interaction 
still continues?

 MR. PARKHURST:  No, I disagree with that, 

Your Honor.  An officer can conduct a pat down any time 
it is reasonable in light of factors that the officer 
may notice about the individual.  If the individual 
presents an immediate danger to the officer or to the 
public, a pat down may be reasonable under the broad 
Fourth Amendment principles, even if this happens to be 
a consensual encounter or a --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  So in your view, or I 
suppose the government's view -- well, I'll let the 
government argue for itself.  In your view, if the 
officer is just looking for the man in the gray overcoat 
and he stops someone on the street and says, have you 
seen a man with a gray overcoat, and the person says, 
well, I saw something like that, can he just suddenly 
spin him around and pat, and pat that person?

 MR. PARKHURST:  If the officer possesses 

articulable facts that this person is immediately 
dangerous to that officer.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Then you're doing away 
with the first Terry factor altogether.  Do you think 
all you need is reasonable suspicion that the person is 
armed and dangerous?  What happened to the reasonable 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

suspicion that a crime has just been committed or is in 
the course of being committed?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, the first prong of the 

Terry analysis, justice Ginsburg, is whether the 
officer's action is justified at its inception, and one 
way that it may be justified is if the officer possesses 
suspicion that criminal activity is afoot.  But we also 
know from other case law that another way the officer's 
actions may be justified is during a traffic stop where 
there's no criminal activity.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of course, for a Terry --

for a Terry pat down you don't need, do you, articulable 
suspicion that the person is armed and dangerous?  So 
long as you have a suspicion of unlawful activity, you 
can stop the individual and pat down.  Do you have to 
have, in addition to stopping the individual, an 
articulable suspicion that he is armed and dangerous?

 MR. PARKHURST:  I believe that's what Terry 

says, that you --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Both armed and dangerous?
 MR. PARKHURST:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, in your view if an 

officer was going down the street and he saw an 
individual as to whom he had no suspicion a crime was 
being committed, had been or was about to be, but he 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

said that guy looks like trouble for anybody who has 
anything to do with him, so he goes up to him and he 
says, I want to talk to you, and because he has 
reasonable suspicion that the individual looks like 
trouble, he pats him down.  Is that a good pat down?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, he would also have to 

possess articulable reasons that a prudently -- a 
reasonably prudent person would be satisfied with that 
this person is an immediate danger to him.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  The individual gives him --
gives him mean looks and he has a bulge of something on 
his hip.

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, that could very well 

support a pat down.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Then you are doing away 

with the first Terry factor.  There are two factors 
recognized:  One, reasonable, articulable suspicion that 
a crime is afoot; and two, this person is reasonably 
suspected of being armed and dangerous.  Your answer to 
Justice Souter suggests that you don't need the first 
one, you don't need to have any suspicion that a crime 
is afoot; it's enough that you reasonably suspect that 
the person is armed and dangerous.

 MR. PARKHURST:  What I'm suggesting, Justice 

Ginsburg, is that the first prong of Terry is much 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

broader than just suspicion of criminal activity.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, but in my hypothesis 

there was nothing that would satisfy the first prong of 
Terry.  There is no lawful traffic stop, there is no 
indication that the individual has committed a crime or 
is about to or is doing so.  So, so -- so Terry one is 
blank in my hypothesis, and you nonetheless conclude 
that as a result of dirty looks and the bulge of a 
probable gun on the hip, the officer can in effect 
initiate the action with the individual and pat him 
down.

 MR. PARKHURST:  What I'm suggesting, Justice 

Souter, is that in the officer's community caretaking 
function the officer is authorized to approach an 
individual that he thinks is trouble, and in the course 
of asking neutral questions, if the officer believes 
that this person is immediately dangerous to the 
officer, then a pat-down would be appropriate in that 
instance.  I'm not --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Doesn't the officer need --

justification for a stop, for a Fourth Amendment 
seizure, whether because of a traffic violation or 
because of suspicion of criminal activity; and then in 
addition to that, reasonably believe that the person is 
dangerous?  I thought that would be -- I thought that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was your argument.

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well --
JUSTICE ALITO:  In the context of a traffic 

stop, you don't need, as to the passenger and the 
driver, you don't need suspicion of criminal activity. 
The person has been seized as a result of the stop, and 
then if you add on to that the reasonable suspicion of 
danger to the officer, that would be sufficient.

 MR. PARKHURST:  What I'm saying, Justice 

Alito, is that in this particular case we certainly have 
a legitimate stop, and under Brendlin we also know that 
the passenger is seized during a reasonably routine 
traffic stop until the passenger is released.  So what 
we have here is a presumption that the officer has the 
authority to control the passenger during the routine 
traffic stop, and we also have an instance in a traffic 
stop where an officer cannot avoid the individual, be it 
a driver or passenger.  So in our case it seems like to 
the easy case where Mr. Johnson and Officer Trevizo were 
placed in close proximity, she detected things about him 
that she believed made him a threat to her, an immediate 
threat, and therefore all we're asking in our case is 
that she be -- she have the entitlement under the Fourth 
Amendment to pat him down.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But Officer Trevizo 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

herself testified that she thought the seizure part was 
over.  She asked him would he get out of the car, and 
then she said -- I think she used the word "consensual" 
herself, that it was a consensual encounter.

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  That after the initial 
seizure was over, and then she wanted to question him 
about gang, his gang affiliations -- and didn't she 
testify?  I seem to remember she did, and she said it 
was voluntary.

 MR. PARKHURST:  She said that he could have 
refused to get out of the car.  There's two things about 
that, Justice Ginsburg.  One is we don't need to credit 
necessarily the officer's own subjective beliefs as to 
the -- whether the subject was free to leave or not. 
The second thing is, we know from Brendlin that unless 
the officer has given or the individual has asked for 
permission to leave, there's -- there is really no 
release.  So Officer Trevizo was certainly entitled to 
enter a consensual conversation with Mr. Johnson during 
the lawful seizure, but there was no indication that he 
was free to leave.  Moreover, even if he reasonably felt 
free to leave, it's irrelevant to whether he reasonably 
posed a danger to the officer.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I guess what you're saying 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

is that if there is a stop of the passenger and an 
interrogation of the passenger, the passenger can't say, 
incidentally, this is consensual, and thereby avoid a 
pat down?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Correct, correct, and 

whether or not --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And it seems to me there 

is some indication that that's what happened here if you 
credit the police officer's testimony.

 MR. PARKHURST:  Right.  Certainly --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  In other words, you can 
have consent within the context of a stop that has not 
yet ceased.

 MR. PARKHURST:  Correct.  It would be 

analogous to, say, a, an inmate in a prison offering to 
give information to one of the prison guards.  There's 
no question that the inmate is still in custody, even 
though the conversation itself is consensual.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask if your view of 

the law that, if the officer is pretty sure that the 
person he's having a consensual encounter with has a gun 
-- he could see the bulge or something -- is that 
sufficient or does he have to have some proof that the 
person is about to use the gun?

 MR. PARKHURST:  It would be -- in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

context of a traffic stop because of all the unknowns 
that an officer must face, a bulge is usually sufficient 
to justify a pat down.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  What about just meeting on 

-- on the street, the officer meets the man on the 
street and asks him where he's going or something like 
that, and he sees a -- a bulge in the pocket that 
convinces the officer he has a gun, but that's all. 
That's the only evidence of a threat to the officer.  Is 
that enough?

 MR. PARKHURST:  In that instance, it may be 
the prudent course to at least ask whether the person is 
armed.  On a -- on a random --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  What if he says "yes"?
 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, then the officer could 
ask something along the lines of whether he has a permit 
to carry a gun.  And whether or not the person has a 
permit to carry the gun or is lawfully in possession of 
the gun, it's a matter of basically the totality of the 
circumstances whether --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, but I -- I thought 
you said that there has to be an articulable suspicion 
that he is armed and dangerous.

 MR. PARKHURST:  Right.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  A bulge would not be enough 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to conduct a pat down after a Terry stop, therefore.

 MR. PARKHURST:  That's exactly -- exactly 

what I'm --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, then why should it be 

enough to -- to justify a pat down here?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, because -- well, there 

was no bulge in this case.  However, it's a matter of 
all the factors.  It's a weighing of all the factors.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  No, I understand.  I weigh 

all the factors, and there's nothing but a bulge.

 MR. PARKHURST:  Okay.  Well, it's a matter 

of whether you believe that the person is dangerous.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.  So the bulge alone 
-- Well, whether I believe?  There has to be, you know, 
a reasonable basis for --

MR. PARKHURST:  Right.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- an articulable basis for 

the belief, right?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  So I don't see why a bulge 

alone would -- would satisfy.

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, in Mimms it was just a 

bulge in the -- the driver's jacket that justified the 
pat down.  However, a person may possess a gun lawfully, 
and that person may or may not be a danger.  For 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

instance, an off-duty police officer, they often carry 
their sidearms with them.

 They are not going to -- even if another 
officer knows that they're armed, they don't perceive 
them as a danger, and therefore no pat down is going to 
ensue.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  We have a whole separate 

line of cases apart from the Terry stop cases which 
allow officers to protect themselves by conducting a 
search of the surrounding area when they arrest 
somebody.  And that justifies a pat down of the person 
that they arrest also, doesn't it?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Whether or not they think 
that -- that he's about to -- to draw the gun and shoot 
them.

 MR. PARKHURST:  Correct.  It's -- it's a 

matter --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why wouldn't that line of 

cases be extendible to this kind of a situation?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, it's a matter of 

during a traffic stop, Brendlin even says that officers 
must be able to exercise unquestioned command of the 
situation.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why -- why during a traffic 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

stop shouldn't they be able to ensure their own safety 
by -- by patting down the people who have been stopped, 
whether or not they have an articulable suspicion that 
they are about to draw and shoot?  But that's not what 
you're proposing, is it?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, what I'm proposing is 

the -- the standard Terry test.  That --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes.
 MR. PARKHURST:  -- the suspicion must be 

that they're armed and dangerous.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why -- why go the Terry 

route instead of the route that -- that covers search of 
the area around the person who is arrested?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, I believe that this --
the facts of this case fall pretty much under Terry.  A 
-- a traffic stop will -- will impose circumstances that 
you're not going to get in a -- in a normal street 
encounter, because basically an officer -- we presume 
that an officer has the authority to control any of the 
occupants of a car.  And "control" means not just 
ordering them out as in Mimms and Wilson, but also 
making sure that one of the occupants doesn't get behind 
you while you're dealing with the traffic investigation. 
It's -- it's --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  When -- when did this 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

end?  You just said -- you said when the car is stopped 
everyone is seized, the driver and the passengers as 
well.  The seizure ends at some point.  Is that when the 
driver is ticketed and the police cruise off or --

MR. PARKHURST:  That's the normal situation, 

and usually that's the analysis that bears on whether 
the driver has given valid consent to a search of the 
automobile or something like that.  We -- we must bear 
in mind that a pat-down search is not an evidence 
search.  This is not a full search.  It's just a search 
of the outer clothing for an immediately accessible 
weapon.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  General Parkhurst --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Then how did the -- how 
did the officer come up with the marijuana as well as 
the gun?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, because once he was 

arrested for the gun, then they did a search incident to 
arrest.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  General Parkhurst, I -- I 

seem to be a little confused about the facts of this 
case.  I had the -- remember the testimony that she 
thought the -- that the encounter had become consensual, 
which meant that he was no longer -- in her view, no 
longer under police custody.  But are you also saying 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

she also thought he was about to assault her; and, 
therefore, she was in danger?

 MR. PARKHURST:  She did not --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  There is a substantial 
difference between being both in danger and saying, 
well, the arrest was all over.

 MR. PARKHURST:  No, she -- she did.  She 

believed that he posed an immediate danger to her based 
on the numerous factors that she cited in her testimony. 
So she was -- she was afraid.  She was afraid from the 
outset, as a matter of fact, because of the way that he 
made eye contact with the officers.

 However, we don't want our officers to avoid 
their law-enforcement functions just because they're in 
contact with a possibly dangerous person.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why -- why had this 
descended from a -- a seizure to a post-seizure 
consensual encounter?  Why was the seizure over?

 MR. PARKHURST:  Well, we're arguing that the 

seizure was not over.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, it seems to me you're 

-- you're acknowledging that she said that it was a 
purely -- you're not arguing it as based on a purely 
consensual encounter?  I thought that that's what you --
MR. PARKHURST:  No.  No, Your Honor.  We're 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

suggesting that the seizure had never ended in this 
case.  The Arizona court of appeals --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Even though she said so?
 MR. PARKHURST:  Correct, because we don't 

have to necessarily take her word for that.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.
 MR. PARKHURST:  That's a -- that's a legal 

--

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  The white light is on.  I 

don't want to -- but your opening argument that you 
presented indicated that a seizure is not necessary. 
You -- you wanted a further rule.

 MR. PARKHURST:  I -- well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  If the officer believes 

that a person is armed and might be dangerous, then they 
can pat down.  That's -- that's the rule that you 
proposed, I thought.

 MR. PARKHURST:  We believe that that is 

true.  That's not the rule that necessarily arises from 
the facts of this case, because we believe that there is 
a seizure throughout the entire encounter, and that 
there is really -- there is no question that, as a 
seized passenger, Officer Trevizo could pat him down.

 And unless the Court has any other 

questions, I would like to reserve the rest of my time. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Heytens.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF TOBY J. HEYTENS
 ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,

 AS AMICUS CURIAE,

 SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER

 MR. HEYTENS:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The decision in this case should be reversed 
for one of two independent reasons.  First, at the time 
that Officer Trevizo performed this frisk, the Arizona 
Court of Appeals erred when it held that the seizure 
that had been caused by the initial traffic stop was 
already over.  This seizure was still ongoing at the 
time of the frisk.

 Second, regardless of the answer to that 
question, under this Court's decisions in Mimms and 
Wilson it is constitutionally reasonable for a police 
officer to order any occupant out of a vehicle during a 
lawful traffic stop and to frisk that individual if the 
officer has a reasonable suspicion that that individual 
is armed and presently dangerous to the officer.  In 
this case --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Do you agree that 

there is a point at which the encounter initiated by the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

traffic stop changes in some way that a pat down is no 
longer justified?

 MR. HEYTENS:  We certainly agree, Mr. Chief 
Justice, that at some point the encounter is over, and 
that if it is in fact not over, the --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, if the 

encounter is -- by "the encounter is over," do you mean 
that they separate; they're no longer together?  My 
question is whether or not it's a continuing encounter 
but transforms somehow in its quality so that the pat 
down is no longer justified.

 MR. HEYTENS:  We agree that at some point a 
seizure can morph into a consensual encounter.  We don't 
have any dispute with that.  We would say that the 
fundamental reality of this situation is what the Court 
recognized in Brendlin, which is that at the time the 
car pulls over a reasonable person would understand 
himself to not be free to leave unless and until the 
police officer says something that makes fairly clear 
that the seizure is over and he's free to go.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I suppose there is 

an argument, anyway, that even though the initial 
seizure is over, the consensual encounter continues. 
And at some point the officer, as a result of whatever 
happens during that consensual exchange, becomes 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

concerned for her safety.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Absolutely, Mr. Chief Justice, 

and that's our second argument, which is at the end of 
the day we don't think it matters whether he's seized. 
Because whether he's seized or not, this is still a 
roadside encounter with a person who was a passenger in 
a vehicle that was --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Let me ask you, suppose 

it's a roadside encounter in which the driver is 
changing a flat tire and the officer stops and wants to 
talk to him for a while and then he suddenly thinks, 
well, maybe this guy's armed.  Is it okay for him to go 
ahead and search him?

 MR. HEYTENS:  Well, I guess the first thing 
I want to say, Justice Stevens, is that it's not okay to 
think, maybe he might be armed.  The officer has to have 
articulable suspicion.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, Maybe he has an 

articulable suspicion.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Okay.  Under those 

circumstances we think absolutely, and we think your 
hypo --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Is that any different from 

meeting somebody on the -- on the street corner?

 MR. HEYTENS:  It is different in the sense 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  The flat -- my flat tire 

that --

example.

 MR. HEYTENS:  It is different because it's a 
roadside encounter, and this Court has recognized again 
and again and again --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But those are roadside 

encounters after a traffic violation.

 MR. HEYTENS:  I -- I agree with you, Justice 

Stevens, which is why at the end of the day we don't --
we think that the officer, in basically those facts, 
should be able to perform a frisk on the street as well. 
I guess just -- again to say, I don't think the Court 
needs to reach that issue, because I --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  You don't rely at all on 

the fact this is a traffic stop?

 MR. HEYTENS:  We do rely on the fact --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  On your second point, that 

is.

 MR. HEYTENS:  We think this case is 

substantially easier because it's a traffic stop, 
because --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Why is it easier?
 MR. PARKHURST:  Because this Court has 

recognized again and -- let me give you the example of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Wilson.  Wilson is the case where the Court holds that 
it is per se reasonable for an officer to order a 
passenger to get out of the car.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Yes, but those are all 

cases in which there is a violation of law that preceded 
the activity.  I asked you about cases in which there is 
nothing other than the officer's interest in patting 
down the guy because he thinks he has a gun.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Justice Stevens, I think 

Wilson is highly significant in this regard, because the 
Court went out of its way in Wilson to point out that 
there's no reason to suspect a passenger with any 
illegal activity at all.  The Court said you could 
distinguish Mimms on the ground that with regards to the 
driver you have suspicion that he's --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No, I disagree with that. 

The holding there was that the passenger was stopped, 
the passenger was seized, so this was a pat down in the 
context of an ongoing seizure.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Justice Kennedy, I guess I 

would say we disagree with this.  The Court didn't hold 
until Brendlin that a passenger is seized by virtue of 
the initial traffic stop.  The Court went out of its way 
in Brendlin to say that none of its previous decisions 
had answered the question of whether the passenger is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

seized by virtue of the original traffic stop.  And the 
Court didn't even identify --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, even if that's true, 

why don't we accept Mimms with the gloss of Brendlin?

 MR. HEYTENS:  We think that Brendlin is of 
course absolutely correct, and we think the passenger 
was seized, and we think fundamentally that's why this 
case is fairly easy.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But you say -- your brief 

goes much, much further.  And I'm looking at page 9 
where you say:  "Police have to be able to protect the 
officer's safety from a person reasonably believed to be 
armed and dangerous whenever the officer encounters that 
person in a place where the officer has a lawful right 
to be."

 I read that to mean if the law -- the 

officer is on the street, in a pub, any place where he 
has a lawful right to be, that officer can, on the basis 
of a suspicion of armed and dangerous, pat down, and you 
don't need the first Terry.  It's only -- it's only the 
armed and dangerous.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Justice Ginsburg, we agree 
that that is ultimately the correct Fourth Amendment 
rule.  But what we're saying is that the Court doesn't 
need to decide whether it agrees with us on this 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

point -- that point, excuse me, to resolve this case, 
because there are two very important distinctions 
between this case and that one.

 The first one is that we know that Mr. 

Johnson was seized.  This was not a consensual 
encounter.  We know under this Court's holding in 
Brendlin that there was a seizure of Mr. Johnson in this 
case.  And the question is whether anything happened in 
this case to unseize him; and we think that the answer 
to that question is clearly no.

 And then the second reason is this Court has 

recognized over and over again that traffic stops pose 
unique heightened dangers to police officers, and so 
regardless of what the rule is outside the traffic 
stop --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But you'd apply the same 
rule if the -- if the officer just stopped to help the 
guy change his tire.

 MR. HEYTENS:  We do think that at the end of 
the day, Justice Stevens, the overriding command of the 
Fourth Amendment is that a police officer's conduct must 
be judged by a reasonableness standard, and we think 
that overriding command allows police officers to take 
limited and appropriate steps to protect their own 
safety. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But I take it, if I 

understood your earlier answer, you would extend the 
application of the rule as you understand it to the 
encounter simply on the sidewalk by a police officer who 
has no suspicion that the individual he wants to talk to 
has been, is or is about to commit a crime, but if the 
officer chooses to initiate the conversation, he then, 
in effect, if he can articulate any suspicion, like 
we'll say the dirty look and the bulge on the side, he 
can go ahead and pat down.  Is that -- is that your 
view?

 MR. HEYTENS:  At the end of the day, Justice 

Souter, that is our view.  I think that case is harder 
than this case, and let me explain why.

 It seems like the argument on the other side 

is predicated expressly on the notion that unless a 
police officer has suspicion of crime, he can just avoid 
dangerous people, like any of the rest of us can choose 
to avoid them.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask you if the 
Department of Justice has ever taken this position 
before?

 MR. HEYTENS:  I'm not aware of whether we 
have had to take this position before, Justice Stevens.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  I'm asking you whether you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

have.  You don't think they have, do you?  It's a rather 
extreme position.

 MR. HEYTENS:  I'm not aware of whether we 
have taken this position or not in any previous case, 
because I'm not aware of any case that raises the issue 
that's raised by the going up to someone on the street 
hypothetical.

 We have certainly consistently taken the 
position that in the context of traffic stops it is 
constitutionally reasonable for police officers to 
perform Terry frisks whenever they have reason to 
believe that their safety is in danger.  As I was saying 
to Justice Ginsburg, I think -- excuse me, Justice 
Souter, I believe -- I think the problem in the 
hypothetical where the officer goes up to someone on the 
street, it's predicated under the assumption that the 
police officer, like you and me, should just avoid 
dangerous people.

 We think that's fundamentally wrong about 

what the nature of a police officer's job is.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, there's something 

fundamentally wrong probably about that, but the --
the -- I think the problem that sort of drives the 
questioning is that if you extend the rule as far as you 
want to extend it, we have to take into consideration 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that the standard of articulable suspicion is the 
standard that, in practical terms, can pretty well 
always be met.

 You can -- you know Benjamin Franklin's 

remark, it's great to be a reasonable person because you 
can think of a reason for anything you do.  And that's 
what's driving, at least driving my questions.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Well, I certainly would add, 
Justice Souter, that it has to be a reasonable person. 
It's not that a police officer can recite some reason. 
It's whether a reason that a reasonable person in that 
position would find reasonable.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yeah, but what the officer 
cites is going to be a matter of fact, and the facts at 
that point are gone, they're in the past.  And all 
you've got is the officer saying, you know, this is --
this is what I perceived.  And maybe you've got the a --
defendant somewhere saying, oh, no, it wasn't like that. 
But in a -- in a situation like that, if articulable 
suspicion, in effect, can justify a sidewalk pat down 
without any articulation of a basis to think crime is 
afoot, then you've got a -- you've got a pretty wide 
open standard in the real world.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Well, I guess, Justice Souter, 

to the extent you're concerned about that, I would say 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the same thing is true about whether you have 
articulable suspicion of criminal activity, and the 
Court has decided that that risk is worth, you know, 
dealing with under the context of that question.  So I 
don't really understand why in principle articulable 
suspicion of armed and dangerousness is any different.

 I would also say that in this case, 

regardless of whether there will be hard cases, the 
decision that this Court is reviewing is expressly 
predicated on the view that Officer Trevizo had 
reasonable suspicion Mr. Johnson was armed and 
dangerous.  That's on pages 13 and 14 of the petition 
appendix.

 It is also the predicate of the question on 
which this Court grants review.  The question which this 
Court granted review presupposes that she had a 
reasonable suspicion.

 Thank you very much.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Pincus.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW J. PINCUS

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. PINCUS:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, 

and may it please the Court:

 I think the other side made clear that its 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

principal argument is that Terry should be revisited and 
that the two tests that Terry prescribed for a pat-down 
search, that there be reasonable suspicion that crime is 
afoot and reasonable suspicion of armed and dangerous, 
should be revised so that all that is required for a 
pat-down search is the second Terry standard.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What if -- we've 

been talking about the officer approaching somebody on 
the street who has the bulge in his pocket, what if the 
person with the bulge in his pocket approaches the 
officer?  Can the officer at that point, even if he has 
no suspicion that crime is afoot, conduct a pat down?
 MR. PINCUS:  No, I don't think so, Your 

Honor.  I think that --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  This is -- this is 
like the rule in the Old West that the sheriff has to 
wait for the defendant to draw first?

 MR. PINCUS:  No, I think the officer can --
it's -- I think it's important to make clear that the 
sliver of cases we're dealing with here are cases where 
there is a reasonable suspicion of armed and 
dangerousness but not a reasonable suspicion that 
crime -- criminal activity is afoot.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So in response to my 

--

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. PINCUS:  If there really is --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  One moment.  In 
response to my hypothetical, even though the officer 
reasonably thinks he is in a situation where he could be 
shot, he can't do anything about it, not even a simple 
pat down, even though he did not initiate the contact, 
somebody comes up to him?

 MR. PINCUS:  If he reasonably believes he 

could be shot, Your Honor, then probably there is 
reasonable suspicion of criminal -- that criminal 
activity may be afoot because he'll have --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, no, let's just 

say it's like this case:  The guy's coming up, he's 
wearing the colors of the Crips gang and he has a bulge 
in his pocket.  It's not a crime to wear that type of 
clothing; it may not be a crime to have a bulge in your 
pocket; but he nonetheless has a reasonable suspicion 
that he's being -- he's in a threatening situation, even 
though he has no basis for thinking that a crime is 
being committed.

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, Your Honor, I think this 

goes a little bit to Justice Souter's comment in the 
first part of the argument.  These two standards are --
are somewhat -- are mutually reinforcing, as we discuss 
in our brief.  And if, indeed, as here, the State is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

only arguing armed and dangerousness, and not arguing 
that criminal activity is afoot, it's clearly putting 
itself at the low end of the armed and dangerous.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But that's not -- Mr. 

Parkhurst said in his opening that the traffic stop is 
the equivalent of the articulable suspicion that a crime 
is the equivalent of the articulable suspicion that a 
crime is afoot.  It justifies this stop, and then you 
have to have something further to justify the pat down, 
but the car, the seizure of the car and its passengers, 
that is the equivalent of the first Terry.  And why 
isn't that so?  It's a stop; it's a legitimate stop.
 MR. PINCUS:  I think that you're right, 

Justice Ginsburg, that's the second argument that they 
make, and our answer to that argument is that we don't 
think that Mr. Johnson was seized at the time the pat 
down occurred, as the court of appeals here found.  The 
other side seems to ignore the fact that there is an 
actual determination by the court of appeals, looking at 
the facts of the situation, that there wasn't a seizure. 
And so--

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Can we pursue that for a 

minute.  What -- I guess -- we -- we all start with the 
common assumption that -- that there was at least a 
legitimate stop to start with. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. PINCUS:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  And my -- my question which 

-- which goes to who was right about whether the 
seizure, the legitimate seizure had stopped and the 
consensual encounter had begun, my question is what is 
it beyond the conclusory statement of the officer that 
in effect justifies drawing that conclusion that the 
stop was over?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, a couple of things, Your 
Honor.  First of all, the Court has never discussed, but 
in Wilson it actually reserved the question, of what is 
the duration of the seizure of a passenger.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Do we have -- do we have 

any evidence about duration here?

 MR. PINCUS:  We don't have any duration, but 

the question -- I think an important question is does 
the seizure of the passenger necessarily in all cases 
coextend with the seizure of the driver?  This stop was 
in an urban area.  It might be one thing if it's a stop 
on a highway where there's really no place for the 
passenger to go.  This was a stop in a -- and where 
there are concerns about the safety of a passenger who 
is allowed to wander off and the potential liability of 
the police.  Here the stop was in an urban area, and --
and if the Brendlin says that initially clearly the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

passenger was seized, the question is how long does that 
-- that seizure last?

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  If in my -- my problem in 
this case, I guess, in taking your position is, I don't 
think we have got an evidentiary basis to conclude that 
what we start by assuming is a legitimate stop has in 
fact run its course.  I don't see how we can draw that 
conclusion.  That's what I'm getting at.

 MR. PINCUS:  Let me pick up some of the 

factors we rely on, Your Honor.  First, just as a legal 
matter, the Court has said in Caballes and other cases 
that the scope of a Fourth Amendment intrusion turns on 
the purpose.  Here we say the scope of the seizure of 
the passenger should turn on the ability to secure the 
scene.  If the passenger is not involved in what -- in 
the facts that gave rise to the stop -- if it's clear, 
for example, quickly that the passenger doesn't own the 
vehicle, the reasons that -- the driver owns the 
vehicle, the stop, the basis for the stop relates to the 
passenger -- we don't see what the basis is for, in an 
urban setting at least, for any further seizure of the 
passenger.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, then, in other words, 
you -- you are -- I -- I'll be candid with you.  I would 
have started with the assumption, based on Brendlin, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that if the stop of the car and its driver also effects 
a stop and a seizure of the passenger, that you start 
out with the assumption that the seizure of the 
passenger is going to last for the same duration as the 
seizure of the car and the driver unless you have a good 
reason to draw some line and say, no, it doesn't.  And I 
take it that you are not making that initial assumption; 
am I correct in that?

 MR. PINCUS:  We're not relying entirely on 

-- on what I just said.  But --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  I think you're rejecting 

it, aren't you?

 MR. PINCUS:  No, we're not relying -- we're 

rejecting that assumption.  We don't rest entirely on 
the notion that the -- that the seizure of the 
passengers as a matter of law has to end.  We think 
there are special facts here that show that -- that 
support the idea that the seizure was over.  But I think 
one of them --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  What are those -- what are 

those special facts?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, basically there was this 

interaction separate from the interaction with the 
driver to the extent the passenger -- Brendlin says the 
passenger, one of the reasons the passenger would feel 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that he or she is seized is because of his or her 
relationship to the driver and to the stop here.  This 
interaction proceeded separately.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Are you saying -- are you 

saying if there are a driver and a passenger and two 
police officers, and one police officer is dealing with 
the driver, saying, you know, where's your insurance 
papers and so on, and at the same time the other officer 
is questioning the -- the passenger -- are you saying 
that that independent questioning of the passenger in 
effect eliminates the -- the passenger's seizure as --
as following from the seizure of the driver?

 MR. PINCUS:  I think it's -- I think it's 

part, as the lower court found here, it's part -- it's a 
relevant circumstance.  This is a totality of the 
circumstance test.  The court of appeals here looked at 
that as one fact, looked at the officer's subjective 
intention --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  I -- I don't get it.  Why 
should the fact that an officer, a separate officer is 
talking to the passenger, ultimately have anything to do 
with the duration of the passenger's seizure, absent a 
situation in which officer two says, "by the way, you're 
totally free to go"?  We don't have that kind of strange 
situation.  But short of a strange situation like that, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

why does the conversation with the passenger have 
anything much to do, have any bearing on the -- on the 
length of the passenger's seizure?

 MR. PINCUS:  To the extent -- I think the 

question here is what's -- one question is what's 
communicated to the passenger.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes.
 MR. PINCUS:  If the officer had said in 

turn, would you mind stepping out of the car so I can 
ask you some questions unrelated to the stop about your 
hometown, it seems to us that that statement by the 
officer would provide some pretty strong indication that 
the seizure was over and that this was a separate 
investigation, having nothing to do with the seizure.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But we accept as hornbook 

law when they are -- when the police are questioning one 
individual whom they stopped, let's say for a traffic 
violation, that during that period of seizure, the 
reasonable period of seizure, the officer can ask 
questions about other subjects, and that doesn't end the 
seizure.

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, the Court has said that.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Like the -- passenger.
 MR. PINCUS:  The Court has said that the 
officer can ask those questions, but the Court hasn't 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

said what the impact of that is on the seizure.  And 
Here the officer certainly believed that her conduct and 
her words and her conversation, which we don't know how 
long it lasted or if there were a number of questions, 
communicated to the -- to the individual, to Mr. 
Johnson, the idea that this was a consensual encounter.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  I don't want to -- I don't 
want to take up your whole argument on this hobbyhorse 
of mine, but I mean my -- my only problem is, I don't 
see that we have got an evidentiary basis here to say 
that because of the duration or the mere fact of the 
questioning, there is a reason to say that as to the 
passenger, a reasonable passenger could say I am no 
longer seized, and -- and this encounter is totally 
consensual.

 The -- the officer testified, no question 

about it, but the test is subjective.

 MR. PINCUS:  It is subjective.  And I guess 
I would also point, Your Honor, to the Court's decision 
in Drayton, which dealt with the question in a somewhat 
different context, at a bus search, and whether or not 
passengers on a bus would feel that they were seized 
when there were officers in the front of the bus and 
they were asking questions.  And to us, although this is 
obviously the converse, a lot of the analysis in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Drayton, which showed that -- which concluded that there 
wasn't a seizure there, because of the -- because people 
ultimately would feel free to come and go, given the 
nature of the interaction --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And then don't you lose 
under that line of cases?  This is the picture that the 
officer was painting, or I thought was, to bring this 
within the "Mind if I search your luggage" category of 
cases.

 MR. PINCUS:  Right.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So -- she's got consent. 
She doesn't have to -- she says, he said okay, he would 
get out and talk to me; he said okay when I began to pat 
him down; it's only in the middle of it he began to 
wriggle a little bit.

 MR. PINCUS:  I think it's quite clear, 

Justice Ginsburg, that there's no question here that --
that there was a consent to the pat down.  I think the 
lower courts have concluded and the other side hasn't 
sought review that there was no consent to the pat down 
here.

 I think the reason that Drayton is -- is 
relevant is that that's a case where the question for 
the Court was would these people feel free to terminate 
the encounter; and the Court concluded yes, they would. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

And we think, given the different 

situation of the passenger, it's true that -- that 
Brendlin found the passenger seized.  To some extent 
that was to give the passenger a shield, not to be used 
as the sword for further interrogation of the passenger. 
It recognized the reality that at the outset surely the 
passenger is seized.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You're giving up a 
shield here, I take it?  If instead of a pat down, the 
officer said, where were you last night at 10:00 
o'clock, without Miranda warnings, you would say, well 
that's just -- that's just fine?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, you know, Berkemer says, 

in the context even of a traffic seizure, Miranda 
warnings aren't necessarily necessary.  But what we are 
saying is that, given the different basis for the 
seizure here, it's that initial conclusion that at the 
outset, yes, but that person, unlike the -- unlike the 
driver, who is the target of the police activity and 
therefore a reasonable conclusion for the driver is he's 
seized until the end of that activity, the passenger is 
not the target of the traffic stop.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What are the facts that 

show that a reasonable person in the passenger's 
position would have believed himself free to terminate 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the encounter?

 MR. PINCUS:  I'm sorry, Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER:  What are the facts that 
show that the person who was searched, which is Mr. 
Johnson -- is that right?

 MR. PINCUS:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, what are the facts 
that suggest that he thought he was free to terminate 
that encounter with the police?

 MR. PINCUS:  That the -- that the 

interaction with the officer had nothing to do with the 
subject of the stop.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  I would say 

we've held a lot that that's just beside the point.  If 
you stop a car for a traffic stop, you can search it for 
all kinds of things.  You can do all kinds of things not 
related.  So if that's what they're relying on, I 
suspect that that's not right, that it had to do with a 
different subject matter.

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Say I was lawfully stopped. 

All right.  Go ahead.  I want to get all of them in 
front of me.

 MR. PINCUS:  That the officer herself 

believed that she had communicated the fact that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

interaction was voluntary.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  The question is, how did 

she do that?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well --
JUSTICE BREYER:  She said, "You can leave 

whatever time you want"?

 MR. PINCUS:  She did not do it that way.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  No.  No.
 MR. PINCUS:  Although the courts --
JUSTICE BREYER:  So you're standing there 

and the policeman is in front of you, and they have 
stopped the car, and the woman who is the policeman 
says, "I want to search you."  Do you think you're free 
to leave?

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PINCUS:  No, Your Honor, but --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay, then.  So now we have 

got two of them.  What's the third?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, the third is that it was 
in -- it was not a road stop in an abandoned area, where 
a --

JUSTICE BREYER: 
MR. PINCUS:  No,

No, it was on the highway.
 it was in an urban area, 

actually.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  It was in an urban area. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Okay.  You're stopped in an urban area.  The policeman 
says you are stopped, and you are stopped lawfully. 
Will you get out of the car?  Yes.  The policeman begins 
to search for the -- the gun.  Fine.  You think you're 
free to leave?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, obviously it wasn't --
JUSTICE BREYER:  What's the fourth?  What's 
the fourth?  I just want to get them all out here.  Is 
there anything else?

 MR. PINCUS:  I think we've gotten them all 

out onto the table.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  So, what they say is 

a reasonable person would have found -- felt that he 
could just say good-bye, and he would have felt this 
even though the car was stopped lawfully, she asked him 
to get out of the car, and she began to search him for a 
gun.

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER:  I say, can we not reverse 

that?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, Your Honor, a couple of 
things.  I don't think the question is at the moment --
clearly, at the moment she was conducting the pat-down 
search, he was seized.  But if that were the test, then 
even in the -- in the Terry situation, the person is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

obviously in fact seized at the time that the pat-down 
search is conducted, but that's not -- the question is 
whether there was, in the moments before, there was a 
basis to immobilize that person.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  No, I'm saying if the 

question is whether the person reasonably thought at the 
time of the search he could leave, there's certainly a 
strong claim here that he could not reasonably or he did 
not reasonably think he could leave.  As long as that is 
so, the issue in front of us is when you stop a person, 
a policeman in the course of your duties, and that 
person thinks that he cannot reasonably leave, and you 
believe reasonably that he's armed, can you pat him 
down?  Well, asked that way, certainly a strong 
argument, the answer is yes, if you don't want to be 
killed.

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, I guess a couple of 

answers to that, Justice Breyer.  First of all, if this 
is just a case about whether the lower court made a 
correct determination about whether there was a seizure 
or not, there's not -- maybe there's not much to the 
case.  We think the lower court did make the right 
determination for the reasons that I gave.  And I should 
say, it seems -- it does seem to me, and I was trying to 
get at this point in response to Justice Souter's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

question, there are two related questions here.  One is 
what a reasonable person in Mr. Johnson's position would 
believe?  One is what is the authority of an officer in 
terms of the duration for which a passenger may be 
seized?

 One answer --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, if you look at 

the first part of that, what somebody in Mr. Johnson's 
position would believe, how does he tell?  I mean, even 
if the other officer goes to the window and starts 
asking the driver, "Can I see your insurance papers," 
there's no representation that's why we stopped you, 
that's all we're interested in.  They may have stopped 
him because they have reason to believe that that car 
was involved in criminal activity.  They don't have to 
disclose immediately what's involved.

 So how can the passenger know why the 
officer is stopping the person in the first place? 
Hypothesize that he has been involved in criminal 
activity.  He may think, well, they've caught me and 
they're just going through this charade to try to get 
information about it and make the people feel 
comfortable, whatever.  I mean, just because he says, 
"You don't have insurance papers," that's -- I don't 
think it's reasonable for the passenger to say, "Oh, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

this is not about me.  I can get up and leave."

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, that may not be -- by 

itself, it may not be enough.  We think, together with 
the other factors here, the fact --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, what else?
 MR. PINCUS:  Well, the fact that the officer 
believed, therefore her tone, we have to assume, the way 
she -- that she spoke and the way her subjective intent 
indicated, that she believed what was going on here was 
a conversation in an effort to get gang information --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  He is supposed to 

assume that it's not about him because of her tone?

 MR. PINCUS:  No, he was supposed to assume 

that it was consensual because of her tone, because that 
was her intent.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Suppose we go beyond.  I 

mean, once we go beyond, I become a little at sea as to 
what the answers are because policemen do things other 
than investigate crime.

 A policeman is on protective duty.  The 

individual he is protecting is approached by a member of 
the Crips gang, who has a bulge in his pocket.  Can the 
police, with reasonable grounds to think that that 
person is armed, pat down that person?  Or is he 
supposed to wait until the gun comes out of the pocket 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and the person who is being protected is shot?

 A policeman is on a bridge.  Somebody stops 
the car in the middle of the bridge.  Traffic is held up 
in all directions.  The policeman goes to try to remove 
the car from the bridge.  In the back seat is a member 
of the Crips gang with a bulge in his pocket.  Is the 
policeman supposed to ignore that?

 I mean, policemen do many things, and once 
you tell me that we're going beyond the facts of this 
case, I can think of all kinds of hypotheticals that 
aren't so hypothetical, and I become uncertain about 
when the policeman can and when he cannot.

 So, how do you respond?
 MR. PINCUS:  Well, Your Honor, I think that 
-- first of all, a couple of reactions:  First of all, I 
think that it is important, and I alluded to this 
earlier, the sliver of cases we're dealing with here are 
cases in which there is reasonable -- allegedly a 
reasonable suspicion that someone is armed and 
dangerous, but not reasonable suspicion that criminal 
activity is afoot.  Those two standards are mutually 
reinforcing.  In most cases where there is serious 
evidence that someone is armed and dangerous, you're 
going to have a very -- almost certainly you will have a 
reasonable suspicion that crime is afoot because the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

dangerousness part requires -- means you'll have 
suspicion of assault or some other kind of activity.  So 
I --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Pincus, I want to go 

back to the previous subject for a minute.  We certainly 
didn't take this case to decide whether the passenger 
was free to leave or not.  That -- that was not the 
issue on which we took the case.  And you claim that 
that issue has already been resolved by findings of the 
lower courts?

 MR. PINCUS:  That the court of appeals here 
determined -- its decision rested on the fact that this 
was a consensual encounter.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But that --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  In order to contradict 

that, would we have to find that that's clearly 
erroneous?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, I think it's a mixed 

question of fact and law, Your Honor.  So I think, with 
respect to the underlying facts, you probably have to 
find that --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Is there any dispute on the 

underlying facts?

 MR. PINCUS:  No --
JUSTICE BREYER:  No. 

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. PINCUS:  -- I don't think the underlying 

facts are disputed.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, there is a dispute 

as to whether the man thought he was free to leave. 
That's a big dispute, isn't it?

 MR. PINCUS:  That is -- that is the disputed 
question:  Whether -- or whether a reasonable person in 
his position --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Did he testify?
 MR. PINCUS:  No, not at the petition --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  So nobody asked him 

whether he thought he was free to leave -- which would 
have solved a lot of problems.

 (Laughter.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Your hypothesis 

about why she -- why he was free to leave is because of 
the tone of the arresting officer?  The tone of the --

MR. PINCUS:  It's the totality of the 

circumstances:  The tone of the officer, the fact it was 
in an urban area where there were some place --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And there's no 

finding about the tone of the officer, right?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, the officer herself 

testified about what her intent was.  And I think most 
people, when they -- that's their intent, it's carried 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

through in how they interact with someone.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, you keep emphasizing 
that this is an urban area, and it seems to me that's 
going to lead to a test that's impossible to administer. 
I can think of a lot of circumstances in which the 
passenger in a car that is stopped will not think for 
practical reasons that there is much alternative but to 
wait until the driver is permitted to get back in the 
car and drive away.

 All of those would fall under your urban 

category, wouldn't they?  If it's night -- suppose this 
was a dangerous area.  Suppose this was in an area that 
was the turf of a rival gang, so it really wouldn't be 
very practical for this person to start walking down the 
street.  There are not just urban areas and rural areas; 
there are expressways in urban areas; there are suburban 
areas.

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE ALITO:  All of those things would --
you would have to draw a line taking all of those things 
into account.

 MR. PINCUS:  It -- it would be a factual 
question in every case as it is in the typical Fourth 
Amendment arrest case about whether someone is seized.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, we didn't think it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was a factual question in -- in Brendlin.  In Brendlin 
we said even when the wrongdoing -- this is at page 7 --
even if the wrongdoing is only bad driving, the 
passenger will expect to be the subject of some 
scrutiny.  And his attempt to leave the scene would be 
so obviously likely to prompt an objection from the 
officer that no passenger would feel free to leave in 
the first place.  And that's why we held there was a 
seizure.  You're basically arguing with the premise of 
Brendlin.

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, Your Honor, I'm 

absolutely not.  I think Brendlin clearly holds that 
there is a seizure at the outset.  The question that 
Brendlin does not explicitly address, and it's one the 
Court explicitly --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Brendlin says no passenger 
would like -- would feel free to leave during the course 
of the investigation.  And -- and I would have to agree 
with that as a -- as a common-sense matter.

 It would be amazing to me that this fellow 

said:  I'm not going to talk to you anymore; I'm 
leaving; and -- and the -- and the police officer would 
allow it, particularly when the police officer, we know, 
searched the person.

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, I don't -- I mean I think 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it -- it may depend upon the other facts in that -- in 
that situation, Your Honor.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What are the facts?  That 
is, this happened quite close to the beginning of the --
of the stop, didn't it?

 MR. PINCUS:  We don't know.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  We don't know.  I -- I read 
this.  But it said -- I mean I thought, from judging it, 
that it did happen within a few minutes of the -- of the 
beginning.  They were still talking to the driver.  We 
know that.

 MR. PINCUS:  We -- we actually don't, Your 

Honor.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  We don't?
 MR. PINCUS:  We don't.  We know that the --
that the conversation seemed to be -- the interaction 
seemed to have started shortly after the interaction 
with the driver.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.
 MR. PINCUS:  We don't know how they -- how 

long they --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, is there any reason 

to think it was half an hour?

 MR. PINCUS:  We just don't know.  The -- the 

record doesn't say.  We don't know. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Do you agree that if you 

-- if you lose on the seizure issue, you lose?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, Your Honor, we think if 
-- if there was a seizure, then -- then we think there 
is a -- a second question, which is even if the person 
was seized, it's not clear to us that the Court's 
precedents say that -- that that automatically permits a 
pat down on armed and dangerousness.

 My friends rely on Mimms.  The Court in 

Mimms made very clear -- and, in fact, as we recite on 
pages 31 to 32 of our brief -- footnote 5 in Mimms says 
that the reason for the pat down there was that once the 
driver alighted, the officer had independent reason to 
suspect criminal activity and present danger.  And it 
was on that basis that the pat-down search was 
permissible.

 So the Court hasn't said that in the context 

of a roadside stop, once you are seized in this, at 
least for a passenger, somewhat different sense than a 
Terry seizure based on articulable suspicion about that 
person's criminal activity, that is enough.  We think 
the relevant standard there is supplied by the Court's 
decisions in -- in Summers and associated cases, which 
say the officer can control the scene, and that might 
allow a pat-down search if that's what the officer is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

trying to do.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I guess what about -- I --

I guess if we held that you could do this, this pat-down 
search here, it would probably carry forward to any 
other kind of seizure like a -- a roadblock to inspect 
for drunken driving or anything like that?

 MR. PINCUS:  Well, that's -- that's part of 

the concern, Your Honor.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  We would say the same 

thing:  That if there is a passenger in that car, you 
could tell the passenger to get out and conduct a 
pat-down search.

 MR. PINCUS:  Yes, even though -- even 

though, again, there is no particularized suspicion 
about that passenger.  So this is a pretty dramatic 
expansion of the officer's ability to -- to search, and 
we think it should be cabined very closely to those 
situations in which there really is a threat of armed 
and dangerous.

 And as I was saying before, "armed and 

dangerousness", "a reasonable suspicion that a crime is 
afoot," are mutually reinforcing.  If one isn't present, 
if the State, as here, is arguing that one isn't 
present, it tends to cast doubt on whether the other is 
present. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Why isn't the -- why 

isn't the "seizure" and the "consensual" aspect also 
mutually reinforcing but kind of blurring into each 
other?  It seems to me it's an awfully difficult 
decision for the officer to make.  I stopped this 
person.  I know under Brendlin that he is seized, and 
I'm engaged in a dialogue, and I have to worry that at 
some point he thinks he is free to leave.

 MR. PINCUS:  I'm -- I'm not sure that I 

understand what you are -- what you are getting at in 
your -- in your question.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, you seem --

your argument assumes a fairly bright line between the 
point at which the individual is seized and the point at 
which the interaction becomes a consensual search.  And 
I'm just saying that in the running line of cases, that 
line is going to be very blurry.

 MR. PINCUS:  As it is blurry when the -- in 

the converse situation when the question is --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No.  The converse 

situation is that so long as the interaction continues, 
it is a seizure, and the officer can take reasonable 
steps, the pat down to protect, her safety.  That 
doesn't have a line-drawing issue.

 MR. PINCUS:  No, I'm talking about the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Drayton situation, Your Honor.  When the -- when the 
question is:  Has a consensual interaction morphed into 
a seizure, then there is also a -- a -- it's an 
uncertain line.  But the Court has said that there it's 
a totality-of-the-circumstances test and, obviously --
sort of -- the shoes are all on the other feet there, 
because the -- law enforcement doesn't want that to 
happen.  And so it's arguing that the facts don't amount 
to a seizure, and here we're sort of in the converse 
situation.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You -- you don't concede 
in this case, or do you, that Trevizo had a reasonable 
suspicion that Johnson was armed and dangerous?  That 
has not been found for purposes of --

MR. PINCUS:  Absolutely not.  The lower 

court assumed it for the purposes of decision --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  So even if you did not 

prevail, we would have to remand on that point?

 MR. PINCUS:  Yes, that point would have to 

be remanded so that the court below could address it.

 Just to -- just to return to the final 

point, the -- the sliver of cases we're talking about 
here, "armed and dangerousness, but not crime afoot," 
it's a very small sliver.  The government hasn't shown 
that that's a real problem that has to be taken care of. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

In fact, in this case if the officers really 
had believed that -- that there was proof of "armed and 
dangerousness," why wouldn't they have argued that they 
had proof that crime was afoot, given that they knew 
that Mr. Johnson was a felon?  We think that the reason 
that the State took that off the table was it doesn't 
have a lot of confidence in --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Is it lawful to possess a 

firearm?

no?

 MR. PINCUS:  If you're a convicted felon, 

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Was he convicted?
 MR. PINCUS:  He had admitted to the officer 
that he had engaged in burglary.  In fact, that's one of 
the reasons to show that he's not dangerous is that he 
was very forthcoming about the fact that he had a 
conviction.  So the fact that the State took that off 
the table and didn't rely on it, we think, shows, (a), 
that they don't have a lot of confidence that there's 
real "armed and dangerousness" here.  And so that the 
"danger" in a systemic sense, as Justice Souter pointed 
out, relying only on that prong as the basis for 
cabining off, is discretionary.  As justice Kennedy said 
in a separate decision in Whren, it's very easy to -- to 
conduct an unlawful search. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  I have difficulty 

accepting your suggestion that there is a sliver of 
cases.  It seems to me there are a multitude of cases in 
which officers might suspect somebody is armed but not 
think criminal activity is afoot, but decide they would 
like to pat them down.

 MR. PINCUS:  I think it is the 

"dangerousness" element, Your Honor.  If they are "armed 
and dangerousness," which is the test that the Court set 
out in Terry and it is the test that my colleagues are 
asking for, "dangerous," to me, connotes a threat to 
someone.  And it's a very small step, I think, between 
being a threat to someone and having a reasonable 
suspicion that an assault may be committed.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Do you argue in -- in all 

of this that this guy was not dangerous?

 MR. PINCUS:  We -- we agree.  We argue very 
strenuously that he wasn't dangerous, but -- but I -- I 
think the key point here is -- is that it -- it may well 
be a sliver of cases, but removing the sort of mutually 
reinforcing nature of these two tests threatens to 
really downgrade the standard in a way that officer 
discretion --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How could he not be 

dangerous?  First, she said:  I suspected him because he 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

58

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was looking behind, but -- and then she said he was 
wearing the clothes of a gang, and then he admits to 
having been convicted of a burglary.  Why isn't it very 
normal for a person to be apprehensive?

 MR. PINCUS:  All right.  Let me give three 

quick answers to those.  First of all, he looked -- this 
was an unmarked car, Your Honor.  I -- I think a -- a 
very reasonable inference is he looked behind because he 
was surprised that there were, all of a sudden, flashing 
lights and a siren on a car.

 The gang colors, as the lower court -- the 
Court of Appeals here noted, although Mr. Johnson was 
wearing blue, the driver was wearing red.  If these were 
really gang colors, it -- it -- it is not consistent 
with the conclusion that they were gang colors to have 
people of different colors who were rival gangs in the 
same car.

 And the third thing is, as lower courts have 

found, acknowledging prior criminal convictions is a 
basis for concluding that someone is not dangerous 
because they were forthcoming.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Not so fast.
 (Laughter.)
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  The "armed and dangerous" 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

requirement, does the "dangerous" requirement mean 
endangering the policeman, or is it enough -- is it 
enough if -- if you think this fellow is -- you know, 
he's just a dangerous character.  Is that enough, or 
does it have to be an immediate threat to the policeman?

 MR. PINCUS:  I don't think this Court has 
come down one way or -- or the other, Your Honor.  I --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  What do you think?
 MR. PINCUS:  It seems to me there -- there 

is a requirement of immediate danger.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's -- it's not enough if 

you think he's -- he's Al Capone?

 MR. PINCUS:  I don't think if he's just a 
fishy character, it's enough.  I think the reason is 
immediate threat to society.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Parkhurst, you have a minute remaining.
 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH L. PARKHURST

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. PARKHURST:  This -- this case falls 

directly under Mimms and Wilson.  Mimms and Wilson both 
hold that the officer has the authority to control the 
occupants of an automobile with or without suspicion of 
any wrongdoing by the occupant.

 In this case, also, the traffic stop 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

satisfies the first prong of Terry, as we know from 
Mimms.  Also, there's no reason to suggest that this was 
any more than the normal length of a traffic stop here. 
In fact, the evidence was that the -- one officer was 
still talking with the driver while Officer Trevizo was 
conversing with Mr. Johnson.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What do you -- what do you 

say about the other -- the other side's point that in 
the case of a Terry stop there's a -- a mutually 
enforcing -- reinforcing aspect?

 You have a suspicion that -- there is crime 
afoot to begin with, plus the -- the suspicion that the 
person is armed and dangerous; whereas, here, you know, 
it's a traffic stop is all.

 MR. PARKHURST:  The -- yes, that's true. 

However, we --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  So what -- what is required 

where you think criminal activity is afoot is not 
necessarily going to be the same as what's required when 
you -- when there's just a traffic stop.

 MR. PARKHURST:  She -- Officer Trevizo 

testified repeatedly at the hearing that she did not 
believe he was actually about to commit a crime.  She 
could not put her -- put her finger on exactly what it 
was that he was doing at the moment. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

However, we believe that in the context of a 

traffic stop we -- the State has satisfied the first 
Terry prong here because traffic stops frequently don't 
involve any kind of criminal activity, just as -- as in 
this case, a civil violation.  However, that was enough 
to put the officer and the individual in close 
proximity, and if she noticed enough indicia of -- that 
he was dangerous, she certainly was authorized to 
conduct a pat-down search.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

62

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

apart 14:8 
appeals 18:2 

Arizona 1:3 3:4 

46:13

19:12 32:17,19  armed 3:18 4:2 
36:16 48:11 
59:12 

56:23 57:4 
58:5 61:12,18 
afraid 17:10,10 
agree 4:14,24 

19:24 20:3,12 
22:9 24:22 
51:18 53:1 
58:17 

agrees 24:25 
ahead 21:13 
26:10 41:22 

APPEARAN... 

1:14 

appendix 29:13 
application 26:3 
apply 3:11,23 

25:16 

18:2 19:11 

assumption

27:16 32:24
34:25 35:3,7
35:14

assumed 56:16
assumes 55:13
4:11 5:25 6:13  assuming 34:6
6:17,20 7:19 
7:23 12:13,23 
14:4 15:10 
18:15 19:22 
21:12,16 24:13  attempt 51:5
24:19,21 29:6  Attorney 1:15
authority 9:15
29:11 30:4,21 
32:1,3 44:13 
46:24 47:19,23 
53:8 54:18,20 
56:13,23 57:2 
57:20 58:4,8 
59:25 61:13 

15:19 45:3
60:22

automatically

62:8

53:7

authorized 8:14

arrest 14:10,12 

automobile 16:8

Al 60:12 
alighted 53:13 
Alito 8:20 9:3,10  approach 8:14 

apprehensive 

59:4 

50:2,19 

approached 

allegedly 47:18 
allow 14:9 51:23  approaches 

46:21 

53:25 

allowed 33:23 
allows 25:23 
alluded 47:16 
alternative 50:7 
altogether 5:23 
amazing 51:20 
Amendment 

3:20 5:9 8:21 
9:24 24:23 
25:21 34:12 
50:24 

60:23

avoid 9:17 11:3 
17:13 26:17,19
27:17

aware 26:23

27:3,5

30:10 

approaching 

30:8 

appropriate 
8:18 25:24 

16:19 17:6 
50:24 

arrested 15:13 

16:18 

area 14:10 15:13  arresting 49:17 
33:19,24 42:20  articulable 5:20 
42:23,25 43:1 
49:20 50:3,12 
50:12 

areas 50:15,15 

6:12,17 7:7,17  awfully 55:4
a.m 1:13 3:2 
12:22 13:17 
15:3 21:17,19 
28:1,19 29:2,5 
32:6,7 53:20 
articulate 26:8
articulation

62:12

50:8

B

back 47:5 48:5 

50:16,17 
amicus 1:19 2:6  argue 5:13 
58:15,17 

19:5 

argued 57:3 

amount 56:8 
analogous 11:15  arguing 17:19 
analysis 6:4 16:6 
17:23 32:1,1 
51:9 54:23 
56:8 

ANDREW 1:21 

38:25 

28:21

asked 10:2,17
23:6 43:15
44:14 49:11

asking 8:16 9:22 

2:8 29:21 
answer 7:19 
19:16 25:9 
26:2 32:15 
44:15 45:6 

answered 23:25 
answers 44:18 

46:18 59:6 
anybody 7:1 
anymore 51:21 
anyway 20:22 

argument 1:12 
26:25 38:24
45:11 58:11
2:2,10 3:4,7 
9:1 18:10 19:3  asks 3:11 12:6 
20:22 21:3 
26:15 29:21 
30:1 31:23 
32:14,15 38:8 
44:15 55:13 
60:18 

assault 17:1
48:2 58:14

Assistant 1:15

aspect 55:2

61:10

1:17

arises 18:19 
Ariz 1:16 

associated 53:23
assume 46:7,12

bad 51:3
based 17:8,23
34:25 53:20
basically 12:19
15:18 22:11
35:22 51:9

basis 13:15,17
24:18 28:21
31:19 34:5,19
34:20 38:10
40:16 44:4
53:15 57:22
59:20

bear 16:8
bearing 37:2
bears 16:6

A 

abandoned 

42:20 

ability 34:14 

54:16 

able 14:23 15:1 

22:12 24:11 
above-entitled 

1:11 62:13 
absent 36:22 
absolutely 21:2 

21:21 24:6 
51:12 56:15 

accept 24:4 

37:15 

accepting 58:2 
accessible 16:11 
account 50:21 
acknowledging 

17:22 59:19 
action 6:5 8:10 
actions 6:9 
activity 3:16 6:7 
6:10,14 8:1,23 
9:5 23:6,13 
29:2 30:23 
31:11 32:2 
40:19,21 45:15 
45:20 47:21 
48:2 53:14,21 
58:5 61:18 
62:4 

actual 32:19 
add 9:7 28:8 
addition 6:16 

address 51:14 

8:24 

56:20 

administer 50:4 
admits 59:2 
admitted 57:13 
affiliations 10:8 
afoot 6:7 7:18 
7:22 28:22 
30:4,12,23 
31:11 32:2,8 
47:21,25 54:22 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

61:23 

comment 31:22 
commit 26:6 

20:21 21:2 
29:19,23 30:7 
30:15,24 31:2 
31:12 40:8 
45:7 46:5,11 
49:15,21 55:1 
55:12,20 59:22  common 3:22 
60:16 62:10 
choose 26:18 
chooses 26:7 
circumstance 

committed 6:1,2 
6:25 8:5 31:20 
58:14 

common-sense 

commonsense 

32:24 

3:22 

23:5,6 29:8 
30:20,20 33:17  claim 44:8 48:8 
34:11 39:6,9 
47:17,18,22 
53:23 55:16 
56:22 58:3,3 
58:20 

29:25 30:19 
34:16 39:16 
53:6,10 

clear 20:19 

36:15,16 

circumstances 
12:20 15:16 
21:21 49:19 
50:5 

cited 17:9 
cites 28:14 
civil 62:5 

clearly 25:10 
32:2 33:25 
43:23 48:16 
51:12 

close 9:20 52:4 

62:6 

closely 54:17 
clothes 59:2 
clothing 16:11 

31:16 

coextend 33:18 
colleagues 58:10 
colors 31:14 

51:19 

communicated 

37:6 38:5 
41:25 

community 8:13 
concede 56:11 
concern 54:8 
concerned 21:1 

28:25 

concerns 33:22 
conclude 8:7 

34:5 

concluded 39:1 

39:19,25
concluding

59:20 

conclusion 33:7 
34:8 40:17,20
59:15 

conclusory 33:6 
conduct 4:25 5:4 

13:1 25:21 
30:12 38:2 
54:11 57:25 
62:9 

conducted 44:2 
59:11,14,15,16  conducting 14:9 

come 16:15 39:3 

43:23 

60:7 

comes 31:7 

46:25 

comfortable 

45:23 

coming 31:13 
command 14:23 

25:20,23 

confidence 57:7 

57:19 

confused 16:21 
connotes 58:11 
consensual 4:18 
4:22 5:10 10:3 
10:4,20 11:3 
11:18,21 16:23 

began 39:13,14 

beginning 52:4 

begins 4:15,16 

43:16 

52:10 

43:3 

42:2,5,8,10,17 
42:22,25 43:7 
43:12,19 44:5 
44:18 46:16 
48:22,25 52:3 
52:7,14,19,22 
57:8,12 

begun 33:5 
behalf 1:16,19 

bridge 47:2,3,5 
1:21 2:4,6,9,12  brief 24:9 31:25 
3:8 19:4 29:22 
60:19 

53:11 

belief 13:18 
beliefs 10:14 
believe 6:18 

8:24 13:12,14 
15:14 18:18,20 
27:12,14 44:13 
45:3,9,14 
61:23 62:1 
believed 9:21 
17:8 24:12 
38:2 40:25 
41:25 46:7,9 
57:2 

believes 4:10 
8:16 18:14 
31:8 

Benjamin 28:4 
Berkemer 40:13 
beyond 33:6 

46:16,17 47:9 

big 49:5 
bit 31:22 39:15 
blank 8:7 
blue 59:13 
blurring 55:3 
blurry 55:17,18 
Brendlin 9:11 
10:16 14:22 
20:16 23:22,24 
24:4,5 25:7 
33:25 34:25 
35:24 40:3 
51:1,1,10,12 
51:14,16 55:6 

Breyer 40:23 

41:2,3,7,13,21 

bright 55:13 
bring 39:7 
broad 5:8 
broader 8:1 
bulge 7:11 8:8 
11:22 12:2,7 
12:25 13:7,10 
13:13,20,23 
26:9 30:9,10 
31:14,16 46:22 
47:6 

burglary 57:14 

59:3 

bus 38:21,22,23 

C
C 2:1 3:1 
Caballes 34:11
cabined 54:17
cabining 57:23
candid 34:24
Capone 60:12
car 10:2,12
15:20 16:1
20:17 23:3
32:10,10 35:1 
35:5 37:9
41:15 42:12
43:3,15,16
45:14 47:3,5
50:6,9 54:10 
59:7,10,17

care 56:25
caretaking 8:13
carried 49:25
carry 12:17,18

14:1 54:4

case 3:4,21 4:21 
6:8 9:10,18,19 
9:22 13:7 
15:15 16:22 
18:2,20 19:9 
19:23 22:20 
23:1 24:8 25:1 
25:3,8,9 26:13 
26:14 27:4,5 
29:7 31:13 
34:4 39:23 
44:19,22 47:10 
48:6,8 50:23 
50:24 56:12 
57:1 60:20,25 
61:9 62:5,11 
62:12 

cases 14:8,8,20 

cast 54:24 
category 39:8 

50:11 

caught 45:20 
caused 19:13 
ceased 11:13 
certainly 9:10 
10:19 11:10 
20:3 27:8 28:8 
38:2 44:7,14 
47:24 48:5 
62:8 

change 25:18 
changed 4:17 
changes 20:1 
changing 21:10 
character 60:4 

60:14 

charade 45:21 
Chief 3:3,9 4:14 
4:19,23 19:1,7 
19:24 20:3,6 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

17:18,24 20:13 
20:23,25 25:5 
33:5 38:6,15 
46:14 48:13 
55:2,15 56:2 
consent 11:12 
16:7 39:11,18 
39:20 

consideration 

27:25 

consistent 59:14 
consistently 

27:8 

constitutionally 

19:18 27:10 

contact 17:12,15 

31:6 

context 3:24 4:9 
9:3 11:12 12:1 
23:19 27:9 
29:4 38:21 
40:14 53:17 
62:1 

continues 5:2 
20:23 55:21 

continuing 20:9 
contradict 48:15 
control 9:15 

24:6,23 35:8 
44:20 

counsel 19:1 
29:19 60:16 
62:10 

couple 33:9 

43:21 44:17 
47:15 

course 6:2,11 
8:15 12:12 
24:6 34:7 
44:11 51:17 
court 1:1,12 

3:10,11 18:2 
18:24 19:8,12 
20:15 22:5,13 
22:24 23:1,11 
23:13,21,23 
24:2,24 25:11 
29:3,9,15,16 
29:24 32:17,19 
33:10 34:11 
36:14,16 37:22 
37:24,25 39:24 
39:25 44:19,22 
48:11 51:15 
53:9,17 56:4 
56:16,20 58:9 
59:11,12 60:6 

15:19,20 53:24 
60:22 

courts 39:19 
42:9 48:10 
59:18 

conversation 
10:20 11:18 
26:7 37:1 38:3  Court's 19:17 
25:6 38:19 
46:10 52:16 
converse 38:25 
53:6,22 
55:19,20 56:9 
conversing 61:6 
convicted 57:10 

covers 15:12 
credit 10:13 

11:9 

57:12 59:3 

conviction 57:17 
convictions 

59:19 

convinces 12:8 
corner 21:24 
correct 4:13 
11:5,5,14 
14:17 18:4 

crime 6:1,24 
7:18,21 8:5 
26:6,17 28:21 
30:3,12,23 
31:15,16,19 
32:6,8 46:19 
47:25 54:21 
56:23 57:4 
61:11,23 

Crips 31:14 
46:22 47:6 
cruise 16:4 
curiae 1:19 2:7 

19:5 

custody 11:17 

16:25 
D

D 3:1
danger 5:7 7:9 

9:8 10:24
13:25 14:5
17:2,5,8 27:12 
53:14 57:21
60:10

dangerous 3:19
4:2,11 5:21,25 
6:13,17,20
7:19,23 8:17 
8:25 12:23
13:12 15:10
17:15 18:15
19:22 24:13,19
24:21 26:18
27:18 29:12
30:4 32:3
47:20,23 50:12 
54:19 56:13
57:15 58:11,16
58:18,25 59:20 
59:25 60:1,4
61:13 62:8

dangerousness

29:6 30:22
32:1 48:1 53:8 
54:21 56:23 
57:3,20 58:8,9 

dangers 25:13 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

criminal 3:16 
day 21:4 22:10 
6:7,10 8:1,23 
25:20 26:12 
9:5 29:2 30:23  dealing 15:23 
31:10,10 32:2 
29:4 30:20 
45:15,19 47:20 
36:6 47:17 
dealt 38:20 
53:14,21 58:5 
December 1:9 
59:19 61:18 
decide 24:25 
62:4 
48:6 58:5 

dispute 20:14 
48:22 49:3,5 
disputed 49:2,6 
distinctions 25:2 
distinguish 

23:14 

doing 5:22 7:15 

8:6 61:25 
doubt 54:24 
downgrade 

58:22 

dramatic 54:15 
draw 14:15 15:4 

decided 29:3 
decision 19:9 
29:9 38:19 
48:12 55:5 
56:16 57:24 

decisions 19:17 

30:17 34:7 
35:6 50:20 
drawing 33:7 
defendant 28:18  Drayton 38:20 
39:1,22 56:1 

23:24 53:23 

30:17 

Department 
1:18 26:21 
depend 52:1 
descended 17:17 
detected 9:20 
determination 

32:19 44:20,23 

determined 

48:12 

dialogue 55:7 
difference 17:5 
different 21:23 

21:25 22:4 
29:6 38:21 
40:1,16 41:19 
53:19 59:16 
difficult 55:4 
difficulty 58:1 
directions 47:4 
directly 60:21 
dirty 8:8 26:9 
disagree 5:3 

23:16,21 

disclose 45:16 
discretion 58:23 
discretionary

57:23 

discuss 31:24 
discussed 33:10 

drive 50:9 
driver 3:17,18
4:11 9:5,18
16:2,4,7 21:9 
23:15 33:18 
34:18 35:1,5
35:24 36:2,5,7
36:12 40:19,20
45:11 50:8 
52:10,18 53:13 
59:13 61:5 

driver's 13:23 
drives 27:23 
driving 28:7,7

51:3 54:6 

drunken 54:6 
duration 33:12 
33:14,15 35:4 
36:22 38:11 
45:4 

duties 44:11 
duty 46:20 
D.C 1:8,18,21

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 26:2

47:17

easier 22:21,23

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

factors 5:5 7:16 
13:8,8,10 17:9 
34:10 46:4 

facts 5:20 15:15 

16:21 18:20 
22:11 28:14 
32:20 34:16 
35:17,21 40:23 
41:3,7 47:9 
48:20,23 49:2 
52:1,3 56:8 
factual 50:22 

gang 10:8,8 

gangs 59:16 

31:14 46:10,22 
47:6 50:13 
59:2,11,14,15 

61:1 62:2 
fishy 60:14 
flashing 59:9 
flat 21:10 22:2,2 
following 36:12 
footnote 53:11  General 1:15,18 
forthcoming 
57:16 59:21 
forward 54:4 
found 32:17 
36:14 40:3 
43:13 56:14 
59:19 

16:13,20 
getting 34:8 

Ginsburg 5:22 

55:10 

fairly 20:19 24:8  fourth 3:20 5:9 

6:4 7:15,25 
9:25 10:6,13 
15:25 16:14 
24:9,22 27:13 
32:4,14 39:5 
39:11,17 58:24 
give 11:16 22:25 

40:4 59:5 

8:21 9:23 
24:23 25:21 
34:12 43:7,8 
50:23 

easy 9:19 24:8 

57:24 

effect 8:9 26:8 

28:20 33:7 
36:11 

3:14,16 4:1 

establishes 4:9 
evidence 4:20 

12:9 16:9 
33:14 47:23 
61:4 

effects 35:1 
effort 46:10 
element 58:8 
eliminates 36:11  evolution 4:22 
exactly 13:2,2 
emphasizing 

evidentiary 34:5 

38:10 

50:2 

61:24 

encounter 4:22 

example 22:3,25 

27:13 

34:17 

exchange 20:25 

5:10 10:4 
11:21 15:18 
16:23 17:18,24  excuse 25:1 
18:21 19:25 
20:4,7,7,9,13 
20:23 21:6,9 
22:5 25:6 26:4 
33:5 38:6,14 
39:25 41:1,9 
48:13 

exercise 14:23 
expansion 54:16 
expect 51:4 
explain 26:14 
explicitly 51:14 

51:15 

encounters 22:8  expressly 26:16 

51:1 

55:13 

fall 15:15 50:10 
falls 60:20 
far 27:24 
fast 59:23 
feel 35:25 38:22 
39:3,24 45:22 
51:7,17 
feet 56:6 
fellow 51:20 

60:3 

felon 57:5,10 
felt 10:22 43:13 

43:14 

given 10:17 16:7 

39:3 40:1,16 
57:4 

Franklin's 28:4 
free 10:15,22,23 
20:18,20 36:24 
gives 7:10,11 
39:3,24 40:25 
giving 40:8 
41:8 42:13 
43:5 48:7 49:4  gloss 24:4 
49:12,16 51:7 
51:17 55:8 

frequently 62:3 
friends 53:9 
frisk 19:11,15 
19:20 22:12 

frisks 27:11 
front 38:23 

41:23 42:11 
44:10 

full 16:10 
function 8:14 
functions 17:14 
fundamental 

20:15 

fundamentally 
24:7 27:19,22 

further 18:12 
24:10 32:9 
34:21 40:5 

G

G 3:1

go 15:11 20:20 
21:12 26:10 
33:21 36:24 
39:3 41:22 
46:16,17 48:4 
goes 7:2 24:10 
27:15 31:22 
33:3 45:10 
47:4 

going 6:23 12:6 
14:3,5 15:17 
27:6 28:14 
35:4 45:21 
46:9 47:9,24
50:4 51:21 
55:17 61:19 
good 7:5 35:5 
good-bye 43:14 
gotten 43:10 
government
5:13 56:24 
government's

5:12 

24:13 

endangering 

60:2 

ended 18:1 
ends 16:3 
enforcement 

56:7 

enforcing 61:10 
engaged 55:7 

57:14 

ensue 14:6 
ensure 15:1 
enter 10:20 
entire 18:21 
entirely 35:9,14 
entitled 10:19 
entitlement 9:23 
equivalent 32:6 

32:7,11 

erred 19:12 
erroneous 48:17 
ESQ 1:15,17,21 

2:3,5,8,11 

established 3:12 

29:9 

expressways 

50:16 

extend 26:2 
27:24,25 

extendible 14:20  final 56:21 
extent 28:25 
35:24 37:4 
40:3 

48:21 

find 28:12 48:16 

extreme 27:2 
eye 17:12 
F
face 12:2
fact 17:11 20:5 

22:16,17 28:14 
32:18 34:7
36:17,20 38:11 
41:25 44:1
46:4,6 48:12 
48:19 49:19
53:10 57:1,14
57:16,17 61:4 
factor 5:23 7:16 

finding 49:22 
findings 48:9 
fine 40:12 43:4 
finger 61:24 
firearm 57:9 
first 3:4,15,25 
5:23 6:3 7:16 
7:20,25 8:3 
19:10 21:14 
24:20 25:4 
30:17 31:23 
32:11 33:10 
34:10 44:18 
45:8,18 47:15 
47:15 51:8 
58:25 59:6 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

26:12,23 27:3 
28:8,24 
he'll 31:11 
highly 23:10 
highway 33:20 

42:22 

hip 7:12 8:9 
hobbyhorse 

38:8 

hold 23:21 60:22 
holding 23:17 

25:6 

5:20 8:17 
16:11 45:16 

immobilize 44:4 
impact 38:1 
important 25:2 

30:19 33:16 
47:16 

impose 15:16 
impossible 50:4 
inception 6:5 
incident 16:18 
incidentally 

holds 23:1 51:12 

11:3 

independent 
19:10 36:10 
53:13 

indicated 18:11 

46:9 

indication 8:5 

10:21 11:8 
37:12 

indicia 62:7 
individual 5:6,6 
6:15,16,24 7:4 
7:10 8:5,10,15 
9:17 10:17 
19:20,21 26:5 
37:17 38:5 
46:21 55:14 
62:6 

inference 59:8 
information 
11:16 45:22 
46:10 

initial 5:1 10:6 
19:13 20:22 
23:23 35:7 
40:17 

37:11 

Honor 5:4 17:25 
30:14 31:9,21 
33:10 34:10 
38:19 42:16 
43:18,21 47:14 
48:19 50:18 
51:11 52:2,13 
53:3 54:8 56:1 
58:8 59:7 60:7 
hornbook 37:15 
hour 52:23 
hypo 21:22 
hypothesis 8:2,7 

Hypothesize 

49:15 

45:19 

hypothetical 
27:7,15 31:3 
47:11 

hypotheticals 

47:10 
I 

idea 35:18 38:6 
identify 24:2 
ignore 32:18 

47:7 

illegal 23:13 
immediate 5:7 
7:9 9:21 17:8 
60:5,10,15 
immediately 

insurance 36:7 

45:11,24 

intent 46:8,15 

49:24,25 

intention 36:18 
interact 50:1 
interaction 4:15 

4:17,18 5:1 
35:23,23 36:3 
39:4 41:11 
42:1 52:16,17 
55:15,21 56:2 

interest 23:7 
interested 45:13 
interrogation 

11:2 40:5 

intrusion 34:12 
investigate 

46:19 

investigation 
15:23 37:14 
51:18 

involve 62:4 
involved 34:15 
45:15,16,19 

irrelevant 10:23 
issue 22:14 27:5 

44:10 48:8,9 
53:2 55:24 

J 

J 1:17,21 2:5,8 

19:3 29:21 
jacket 13:23 
job 27:20 
Johnson 1:6 3:5 

judged 25:22 
judging 52:8 
justice 1:18 3:3 
3:9,25 4:6,12 
4:14,19,23 
5:11,22 6:4,11 
6:20,22 7:10 
7:15,20,24 8:2 
8:12,20 9:3,9 
9:25 10:6,13 
10:25 11:7,11 
11:19 12:4,14 
12:21,25 13:4 
13:9,13,17,20 
14:7,14,19,25 
15:8,11,25 
16:13,14,20 
17:4,16,21 
18:3,6,9,14 
19:1,7,24 20:4 
20:6,21 21:2,8 
21:15,18,23 
22:2,7,9,15,18 
22:23 23:4,9 
23:16,20 24:3 
24:9,22 25:16 
25:20 26:1,12 
26:20,21,24,25
27:13,13,21
28:9,13,24 
29:19,23 30:7 
30:15,24 31:2 
31:12,22 32:4 
32:14,22 33:2 
33:13 34:3,23 
35:11,20 36:4 
36:19 37:7,15 
37:23 38:7 
39:5,11,17
40:8,23 41:2,3 
41:7,13,21
42:2,5,8,10,17
42:22,25 43:7 
43:12,19 44:5 
44:18,25 45:7 
46:5,11,16
48:4,14,15,22 

gun 8:9 11:21,24  hometown 

granted 29:16 
grants 29:15 
gray 5:14,16 
great 28:5 
ground 23:14 
grounds 46:23 
guards 11:16 
guess 10:25 

21:14 22:13 
23:20 28:24 
32:23 34:4 
38:18 44:17 
54:2,3 

12:8,17,18,19 
13:24 14:15 
16:16,18 23:8 
43:4,17 46:25 

guy 7:1 23:8 
25:18 58:16 

guy's 21:12 

31:13 

H 
half 52:23 
happen 4:20 
52:9 56:8 

happened 5:25 
11:8 25:8 52:4 

happens 5:9 

20:25 

hard 29:8 
harder 26:13 
hear 3:3,25 
hearing 61:22 
heightened 

25:13 

held 19:12 41:14 
47:3 51:8 54:3 

help 25:17 
Heytens 1:17 
2:5 19:2,3,7 
20:3,12 21:2 
21:14,20,25 
22:4,9,17,20 
23:9,20 24:5 
24:22 25:19 

9:19 10:20 
25:5,7 29:11 
32:16 38:6 
41:5 56:13 
57:5 59:12 
61:6 

initially 33:25 
initiate 8:10 
26:7 31:6 
initiated 19:25 
inmate 11:15,17  Johnson's 45:2 
inspect 54:5 
JOSEPH 1:15 
instance 8:19 
9:16 12:11 
14:1 

2:3,11 3:7 
60:18 

45:8 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

48:25 49:3,9 
49:11,15,21 
50:2,19,25 
51:16 52:3,7 
52:14,19,22 
53:1 54:2,9 
55:1,12,20 
56:11,17 57:8 
57:12,21,23 
58:1,15,24 
59:22,23,25 
60:8,11,16 
61:7,17 62:10 

justification 

8:21 

justified 3:17 
4:9 6:5,6,9 
13:23 20:2,11 
justifies 14:11 

32:8 33:7 

justify 12:3 13:5 

28:20 32:9 

K 
keep 50:2 
Kennedy 3:25 
4:6,12 5:11 
10:25 11:7,11 
18:9,14 23:16 
23:20 24:3 
48:14 50:25 
51:16 56:11,17 
57:23 

key 58:19 
killed 44:16 
kind 4:21 14:20 

36:24 48:2 
54:5 55:3 62:4 
kinds 41:16,16 

47:10 

knew 57:4 
know 6:8 9:11 
10:16 13:14 
25:4,6 28:4,16 
29:3 36:7 38:3 
40:13 45:17 
51:23 52:6,7 

52:11,15,20,24 
52:25 55:6 
60:3 61:1,13 

knows 14:4 

L

L 1:15 2:3,11 

3:7 60:18
lasted 38:4
Laughter 42:15

49:14 59:24
law 6:8 11:20 

23:5 24:16
35:16 37:16
48:19 56:7

lawful 3:14 8:4 

10:21 19:20
24:14,18 57:8 
lawfully 12:18
13:24 41:21
43:2,15

law-enforcem...

17:14 

lead 50:4 
leave 10:15,18 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

lines 12:16 
line-drawing 

55:24 

little 16:21 

31:22 39:15 
46:17 

38:4 44:9 
52:21 55:21 

longer 4:17 

45:9,23 46:17 
47:8 51:25 
52:8 60:1 
means 15:20 

48:1 

21:24 

meets 12:5 
member 46:21 

meant 16:24 
long 6:14 34:1  meeting 12:4 

16:24,25 20:2 
20:8,11 38:14  mere 38:11 

47:5 

look 26:9 45:7  met 28:3 
looked 36:16,17  middle 39:14 

47:3 

59:6,8 

looking 5:14 
24:10 32:19 
59:1 

looks 7:1,4,11 

8:8 

lose 39:5 53:2,2 
lot 38:25 41:14 

49:13 50:5 
57:7,19 
low 32:3 
lower 36:14 

nature 4:16 
27:20 39:4 
58:21 

necessarily 

10:14 18:5,19
33:17 40:15 
61:19 

necessary 18:11 

40:15 

need 5:24 6:12 
7:20,21 8:20 
9:4,5 10:13 
24:20,25

needs 22:14 
neutral 8:16 

Mimms 3:12,14  never 18:1 33:10 

50:11 

night 40:10 

3:23 4:1,8 
13:22 15:21 
19:17 23:14 
24:4 53:9,10 
53:11 60:21,21  noted 59:12 
61:2 

normal 15:17 

16:5 59:4 61:3 

mind 16:9 37:9 

39:8 

mine 38:9 
minute 32:23 
48:5 60:17 
minutes 52:9 
Miranda 40:11 

40:14 

missed 4:3,7
mixed 48:18 
moment 31:2 

43:22,23 61:25 

moments 44:3 
MONTREA 1:6 
morning 3:4 
morph 20:13 
morphed 56:2 
multitude 58:3 
mutually 31:24 

47:21 54:22 
55:3 58:20 
61:9 

N

N 2:1,1 3:1 

notice 5:6 
noticed 62:7 
notion 26:16 

35:15 

number 38:4 
numerous 17:9 

O
O 2:1 3:1 
objection 51:6
obviously 38:25
43:6 44:1 51:6 
56:5

occupant 19:19

60:24

occupants 15:20

15:22 60:23

occurred 32:17
offering 11:15
officer 3:17 4:10 
4:25 5:4,5,7,14
5:19,21 6:6,23 
8:9,14,16,18
8:20 9:8,14,17 
9:19,25 10:17 
10:19,24 11:20 

M

35:7 

39:19 44:19,22 
48:10 56:15 
59:11,18 

10:22,23 20:18 
42:5,14 43:5 
44:7,9,12 46:1 
48:7 49:4,12 
49:16 51:5,7 
51:17 55:8 
leaving 51:22 
legal 18:7 34:10  making 15:22 
legitimate 9:11 

luggage 39:8 

16:15 

32:12,25 33:4  man 5:14,16 
12:5 49:4 
34:6 
marijuana 

LEMON 1:6 
length 37:3 61:3 
let's 31:12 37:17  matter 1:11 
liability 33:23 
light 5:5 18:9 
lights 59:10 
limited 25:24 
line 14:8,19 35:6 

12:19 13:7,11 
14:18,21 17:11 
28:14 34:11 
35:16 41:19 
51:19 62:13 
matters 21:4 
mean 7:11 20:7 

39:6 50:20 
55:13,16,17 
56:4 

24:16 38:9 

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

61:15,21 

part 10:1 31:23 
36:14,14 45:8 
48:1 54:7 

particular 4:21 

9:10 

particularized 

particularly 

54:14 

51:23 

46:24 53:8,12 
55:23 58:6 

pats 7:5 
patting 15:2 

23:7 

51:24 53:5 
55:6 59:4 
61:13 

person's 53:21 
petition 29:12 

pat-down 3:13 

49:10 

8:18 16:9 30:2  Petitioner 1:4 
1:16,20 2:4,7 
30:6 43:23 
44:1 53:15,25 
2:12 3:8,11 
54:3,12 62:9 
19:6 60:19 
Pennsylvania 

3:12 

people 15:2 

passenger 3:13 
9:4,12,13,15 
9:18 11:1,2,2 
26:18 27:18 
18:23 21:6 
39:2,24 45:22 
23:3,12,17,18 
49:25 59:16 
23:22,25 24:6 
33:12,17,21,22  perceive 14:4 
34:1,14,15,17 
34:20,22 35:2 
35:4,24,25,25 
36:5,9,10,21 
37:1,6,23 
38:13,13 40:2 
40:3,4,5,7,21 
45:4,17,25 
48:6 50:6 51:4  permission 
51:7,16 53:19 
54:10,11,15 

period 37:18,19 
permissible 

perceived 28:17 
perform 22:12 

permit 12:16,18 

performed 

10:18 

19:11 

53:16 

27:11 

passengers 3:24  permits 53:7 

23:19 

48:15 

19:3 29:21 

40:6,18 51:13 

ongoing 19:14 

ordering 15:21 

order 19:19 23:2 

12:2,5,8,9,15 
14:1,4 15:18 
open 28:23 
15:19 16:15 
18:14,23 19:11  opening 4:1 
19:19,21,22 
18:10 32:5 
20:19,24 21:10  oral 1:11 2:2 3:7 
21:16 22:11 
23:2 24:13,14 
24:17,18 25:17 
26:4,7,17 
27:15,17 28:10  original 24:1 
28:13,16 29:10  outer 16:11 
outset 17:11 
30:8,11,11,18 
31:3 33:6 36:6 
36:8,20,20,23 
37:8,12,19,25 
38:2,16 39:7 
40:10 41:11,24 
45:3,10,18 
46:6 49:17,19 
49:22,23 51:7 
51:22,23 53:13 
53:24,25 55:5 
55:22 57:13 
58:22 60:22 
61:4,5,21 62:6 
officers 14:9,22 
17:12,13 25:13 
25:23 27:10 
36:6 38:23 
57:1 58:4 

outside 25:14 
overcoat 5:14,16 
overriding 
25:20,23 
owns 34:18 
o'clock 40:11 

painting 39:7
papers 36:8
45:11,24

P 3:1
page 2:2 24:10 

pages 29:12

53:11

51:2

P

pick 34:9 
picture 39:6 
Pincus 1:21 2:8 

29:20,21,23 
30:13,18 31:1 
31:8,21 32:13 
33:1,9,15 34:9 
35:9,13,22 
36:13 37:4,8 
37:22,24 38:18 
39:10,16 40:13 
41:2,6,10,20
41:24 42:4,7,9 
42:16,19,23
43:6,10,18,21 
44:17 46:2,6
46:13 47:14 
48:4,11,18,24 
49:1,6,10,18
49:23 50:18,22
51:11,25 52:6 
52:12,15,20,24
53:3 54:7,13
55:9,18,25
56:15,19 57:10 
57:13 58:7,17
59:5 60:6,9,13
place 24:14,17
33:20 45:18 
49:20 51:8 
placed 9:20 

officer's 6:5,8 
8:13 10:14 
11:9 23:7 
24:12 25:21 
27:20 36:17 
54:16 

off-duty 14:1 
oh 28:18 45:25 
okay 13:11,13 
18:6 21:12,15 
21:20 39:12,13 
42:17 43:1,12 

Old 30:16 
once 16:17 
46:17 47:8 
53:12,18 

Parkhurst 1:15
2:3,11 3:6,7,9 
4:4,8,13,19 5:3 
5:19 6:3,18,21
7:6,13,24 8:12 
9:2,9 10:5,11 
11:5,10,14,25
12:11,15,24
13:2,6,11,16
13:19,22 14:13 
14:17,21 15:6 
15:9,14 16:5 
16:13,17,20
17:3,7,19,25
18:4,7,13,18
22:24 32:5
60:17,18,20

16:2 32:10 
35:16 38:22 

passenger's 

36:11,22 37:3 
40:24 

pat 3:17,21 4:9 
4:25 5:4,8,18 
5:18 6:12,15 
7:5,14 8:10 
9:24 11:4 12:3 
13:1,5,24 14:5 
14:11 18:16,23 
20:1,10 23:18 
24:19 26:10 
28:20 30:12 
31:6 32:9,16 
39:13,18,20 
40:9 44:13 

permitted 50:8 
person 5:16,18 
5:20,24 6:13 
7:8,9,18,23 
8:17,24 9:6 
11:21,24 12:12 
12:17 13:12,24 
13:25 14:11 
15:13 17:15 
18:15 20:17 
21:6 24:12,14 
28:5,9,11 
30:10 40:18,24  please 3:10 19:8 
41:4 43:13,25 
44:4,6,10,12 
45:2,18 46:24 
46:24 47:1 
49:7 50:14 

plus 61:12 
pocket 12:7 30:9 
30:10 31:15,17
46:22,25 47:6 

29:24 

69 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

15:6 

proposing 15:5 

preceded 23:5 
precedents 53:7 
predicate 29:14  protect 14:9 
predicated 
24:11 25:24 
55:23 

point 4:7,15 
16:3 19:25 
20:4,12,24 
22:18 23:11 
25:1,1 28:15 
30:11 38:19 
41:14 44:25 
55:8,14,14 
56:18,19,22 
58:19 61:8 
pointed 57:21 
police 11:9 14:1  presently 19:22  prudent 7:8 

protected 47:1 
premise 51:9 
protecting 46:21 
prescribed 30:2  protective 46:20 
present 53:14 
54:22,24,25 

provide 37:12 
proximity 9:20 

26:16 27:16 
29:10 

presented 18:11 

62:7 

18:25 28:7 
37:10,20,25 
38:4,24 45:1 

54:21 55:22 
56:12 58:13 
59:8 

25:22 

reasonableness 

quick 59:6 
quickly 34:17 
quite 39:16 52:4  reasonably 7:8 
7:18,22 8:24 
9:12 10:22,23
24:12 31:4,8
44:6,8,9,12,13

R

9:14 

presents 5:7 
presume 15:18 
presumption 

16:4,25 19:18 
20:19 24:11 
25:13,21,23 
26:4,17 27:10 
27:17,20 28:10  presupposes 
33:24 36:6,6 
37:16 40:19 
41:9 46:23 
51:22,23 

15:15 28:2,22 
37:12 54:15 
policeman 42:11  prevail 56:18 
previous 23:24 

pretty 11:20 

29:16 

42:12 43:1,3 
44:11 46:20 
47:2,4,7,12 
60:2,5 

47:8 

pose 25:12 
posed 10:24 

17:8 

position 26:21 

27:4 48:5 

principal 30:1 
principle 3:23 

principles 3:12 

3:23 5:9 
prior 59:19 
prison 11:15,16 
probable 8:9 

policemen 46:18 

29:5 

26:24 27:2,4,9  probably 27:22 
28:12 34:4 
40:25 45:2,9 
49:8 

31:9 48:20 
54:4 

problem 27:14 

possess 7:7 
13:24 57:8 

possesses 5:19 

6:6 

27:23 34:3 
38:9 56:25 

problems 49:13 
proceeded 36:3 

possession 12:18  prompt 51:6 
possibly 17:15 
post-seizure 

prong 3:15 6:3 
7:25 8:3 57:22 
61:1 62:3 

17:17 

potential 33:23 
practical 28:2 

50:7,14 

proof 11:23 57:2 

57:4 

proposed 18:17 

R 3:1
raised 27:6
raises 27:5
random 12:13
reach 22:14
reactions 47:15
read 24:16 52:7 
real 28:23 56:25 

reality 20:15

57:20

40:6

really 10:18
18:22 29:5
31:1 33:20
50:13 54:18
57:1 58:22
59:14

reason 23:12
25:11 27:11
28:6,10,11
35:6 38:12
39:22 45:14
52:22 53:12,13
57:5 60:14
61:2

reasonable 3:18
3:21,22 5:5,8 
5:24,25 7:4,17 
9:7 13:15
19:18,21 20:17 
23:2 27:10
28:5,9,11,12
29:11,17 30:3 
30:4,21,22
31:10,17 37:19 
38:13 40:20,24
43:13 45:2,25
46:23 47:18,19
47:20,25 49:7 

reasons 7:7 

19:10 34:18 
35:25 44:23 
50:7 57:15 
REBUTTAL 
2:10 60:18 
recite 28:10 

53:10 

recognized 7:17 
20:16 22:5,25
25:12 40:6 
record 52:25 
red 59:13 
refused 10:12 
regard 23:10 
regardless 19:16 

25:14 29:8 

regards 23:14 
reinforcing

31:24 47:22 
54:22 55:3 
58:21 61:10 

rejecting 35:11 

35:14 

related 41:17 

45:1 

relates 34:19 
relationship

36:2 

release 10:19 
released 9:13 
relevant 36:15 
39:23 53:22 
rely 22:15,17
34:10 53:9 
57:18 

relying 35:9,13 

12:12 

prudently 7:7 
pub 24:17 
public 5:8 
pulls 20:17 
purely 17:23,23 
purpose 34:13 
purposes 56:14 

56:16 

pursue 32:22 
put 61:24,24 

62:6 

putting 32:2 

Q 

quality 20:10 
question 4:24 
10:7 11:17 
18:22 19:17 
20:9 23:25 
25:8,10 29:4 
29:14,15 33:2 
33:5,11,16,16 
34:1 37:5,5 
38:16,20 39:17 
39:23 42:2 
43:22 44:2,6 
45:1 48:19 
49:7 50:23 
51:1,13 53:5 
55:11,19 56:2 

questioning 

27:24 36:9,10 
37:16 38:12 
questions 8:16 

70 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

44:22 49:22 
59:5 

41:17 57:22 

remaining 60:17 
remand 56:18 
rise 34:16 
remanded 56:20  risk 29:3 
remark 28:5 
remember 10:9 

rival 50:13 

59:16 

16:22 

remove 47:4 
removing 58:20 
repeatedly 

61:22 

rephrase 4:24 
representation 

45:12 

required 30:5 

61:17,19 

requirement 

60:1,1,10 

requires 48:1 
reserve 18:25 
reserved 33:11 
resolve 25:1 
resolved 48:9 
respect 48:20 
respond 47:13 
Respondent 

1:22 2:9 29:22 
response 30:24 

31:3 44:25 

rest 18:25 26:18 

35:14 

rested 48:12 
result 8:8 9:6 

20:24 

return 56:21 
reverse 43:19 
reversed 19:9 
review 29:15,16 

39:20 

reviewing 29:9 
revised 30:5 
revisited 30:1 
right 11:10 

12:24 13:16,18 
24:14,18 32:13 
33:3 39:10 
41:5,13,18,22 

road 42:20 
roadblock 54:5 
roadside 21:6,9 
22:5,7 53:18 
ROBERTS 3:3 
4:14,23 19:1 
19:24 20:6,21 
29:19 30:7,15 
30:24 31:2,12 
40:8 45:7 46:5 
46:11 49:15,21 
55:1,12,20 
59:22 60:16 
62:10 

route 15:12,12 
routine 9:12,15 
rule 18:12,16,19 

S
S 2:1 3:1 
safety 15:1 21:1 

24:12 25:25
27:12 33:22
55:23

satisfied 7:8

satisfies 3:15

62:2

61:1

satisfy 8:3 13:21 
saw 5:17 6:23 
saying 4:5 9:9 
10:25 16:25
17:5 24:24
27:12 28:16,18
36:4,5,7,9

scope 34:12,13 
24:24 25:14,17  scrutiny 51:5 
26:3 27:24 
30:16 
run 34:7 
running 55:16 
rural 50:15 

se 23:2 
sea 46:17 
search 3:13 

40:16 44:5 
54:20 55:16 
says 5:15,16 

6:19 7:3 12:14 
14:22 20:19 
33:25 35:24 
36:23 39:12 
40:13 42:13 
43:2 45:23 
51:16 53:11 
SCALIA 6:11 
6:20 12:21,25 
13:4,9,13,17 
13:20 14:7,14 
14:19,25 15:8 
15:11 17:16,21 
18:3,6 48:4,15 
54:2,9 59:23 
59:25 60:8,11 
61:7,17 

scene 34:15 51:5 

53:24 

see 11:22 13:20 
34:7,20 38:10 
45:11 

seen 5:16 
sees 12:7 
seized 3:13 9:6 

9:12 16:2 
18:23 21:4,5 
23:18,22 24:1 
24:7 25:5 
32:16 34:1 
36:1 38:14,22 
40:3,7,21 
43:24 44:1 
45:5 50:24 
53:6,18 55:6 
55:14 

shoes 56:6 
shoot 14:15 15:4 
short 36:25 
shortly 52:17 
shot 31:5,9 47:1 
show 35:17 
40:24 41:4 
57:15 

showed 39:1 
shown 56:24 
shows 57:18 
side 26:9,15 

29:25 32:18 
39:19 

sidearms 14:2 
sidewalk 26:4 

28:20 

23:10 

side's 61:8 
significant 

seizure 4:16 5:1 
8:22 10:1,7,21 
16:3 17:17,18 
simple 31:5 
17:20 18:1,11 
18:21 19:12,14  simply 26:4 
siren 59:10 
20:13,20,23 
situation 14:20 
23:19 25:7 
32:10,20 33:4 
33:4,12,17,18 
34:2,13,21 
35:2,3,5,15,18 
36:11,12,22 
37:3,13,14,18 
37:19,21 38:1 
39:2 40:14,17 
44:20 51:9,13 
53:2,4,20 54:5 
55:2,22 56:3,9 

14:24 16:5 
20:15 28:19 
31:4,18 32:20 
36:23,25,25 
40:2 43:25 
52:2 55:19,21
56:1,10

situations 54:18 
sliver 30:20 

47:17 56:22,24
58:2,20

14:10 15:12 
16:7,9,10,10 
16:10,18 21:13 
30:3,6 38:21 
39:8 41:15 
42:13 43:4,16 
43:24 44:2,7 
53:15,25 54:4 
54:12,16 55:15  sense 21:25 
57:25 62:9 

searched 41:4 

51:24 

searches 3:20 
seat 47:5 
second 10:16 
19:16 21:3 
22:18 25:11 
30:6 32:14 
53:5 

secure 34:14 

53:19 57:21 
separate 14:7 
20:8 35:23 
36:20 37:13 
57:24 

separately 36:3 
serious 47:22 
set 58:9 
setting 34:21 
sheriff 30:16 
shield 40:4,9 

small 56:24 

58:12 

society 60:15 
Solicitor 1:17 
solved 49:13 
somebody 14:11 

21:24 30:8 
31:7 45:8 47:2 
58:4 

somewhat 31:24 

38:20 53:19 

sorry 41:2 

71 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

sort 27:23 56:6 

56:9 58:20 
sought 39:20 
Souter 6:22 7:10 

7:20 8:2,13 
26:1,13 27:14 
27:21 28:9,13 
28:24 32:22 
33:2,13 34:3 
34:23 35:11,20 
36:4,19 37:7 
37:15,23 38:7 
57:21 

Souter's 31:22 

44:25 

special 35:17,21 
spin 5:18 
spoke 46:8 
standard 15:7 
25:22 28:1,2 
28:23 30:6 
53:22 58:22 

standards 31:23 

47:21 

standing 42:10 
start 32:23,25 

34:6 35:2 
50:14 

started 34:25 

52:17 

starts 45:10 
State 31:25 

54:23 57:6,17 
62:2 

statement 33:6 

37:11 

States 1:1,12,19 

2:6 19:4 
step 58:12 
stepping 37:9 
steps 25:24 

55:23 

Stevens 11:19 
12:4,14 16:13 
16:20 17:4 
21:8,15,18,23 
22:2,7,10,15 

22:18,23 23:4 
23:9 25:16,20 
26:20,24,25 
49:3,9,11 53:1 
58:1,15 

44:8,14 

subject 10:15 

41:12,19 48:5 
51:4 

21:11 

62:13 

22:21 

subjective 10:14 
36:17 38:17,18 
46:8 

submitted 62:11 

substantial 17:4 
substantially 

stop 3:14,15,24 
4:10,16,20 6:9 
6:15 8:4,21 9:4  subjects 37:20 
9:6,11,13,16 
9:17 11:1,12 
12:1 13:1 14:8 
14:22 15:1,16 
19:13,20 20:1 
22:16,21 23:23  suburban 50:16 
24:1 25:15 
32:5,8,12,12 
32:25 33:8,18 
33:19,21,24 
34:6,16,19,19 
35:1,2 36:2 
37:10 40:22 
41:12,15,15 
42:20 44:10 
52:5 53:18 
60:25 61:3,9 
61:14,20 62:2 

sufficient 9:8 
11:23 12:2 
suggest 41:8 

sudden 59:9 
suddenly 5:17 

suggesting 7:24 

suggestion 58:2 
suggests 7:20 
Summers 53:23 
supplied 53:22 
support 7:14 

8:12 18:1 

35:18 

2:7 19:6 

supporting 1:20 

stopped 15:2 
16:1 23:17 
25:17 33:4 
37:17 41:21 
42:12 43:1,2,2 
43:15 45:12,13  suppose 5:12 
50:6 55:5 
20:21 21:8 
46:16 50:11,12 
supposed 46:11 
46:13,25 47:7 
Supreme 1:1,12 
sure 4:6 11:20 

25:12 27:9 
47:2 62:3 

stops 5:15 21:10 

stopping 6:16 

45:18 

61:2 

strange 36:24,25 
street 5:15 6:23 
12:5,6 15:17 
21:24 22:12 
24:17 27:6,16 
30:9 50:15 
strenuously 

58:18 

strong 37:12 

15:22 55:9 
surely 40:6 
surprised 59:9 
surrounding 

14:10 

suspect 7:22 
23:12 41:18 
53:14 58:4 

suspected 7:19 

58:25 

suspicion 3:16 

3:18 5:24 6:1,7 
6:13,14,17,24 
7:4,17,21 8:1 
8:23 9:5,7 
12:22 15:3,9 
19:21 21:17,19 
23:15 24:19 
26:5,8,17 28:1 
28:20 29:2,6 
29:11,17 30:3 
30:4,12,21,22 
31:10,17 32:6 
32:7 47:19,20 
47:25 48:2 
53:20 54:14,21 
56:13 58:14 
60:23 61:11,12 

sword 40:5 
systemic 57:21 

T

T 2:1,1
table 43:11 57:6 

57:18

take 18:5 25:23 
26:1,24 27:25 
35:7 38:8 40:9 
48:6 55:22

taken 26:21 27:4 

27:8 56:25

talk 7:3 21:11 

26:5 39:13
51:21

talking 30:8
36:21 52:10
55:25 56:22
61:5

target 40:19,22
tell 45:9 47:9 

54:11

tends 54:24
terminate 39:24

40:25 41:8

terms 28:2 45:4 
Terry 5:23 6:4 

6:11,12,18 
7:16,25 8:4,6 
13:1 14:8 15:7 
15:11,15 24:20 
27:11 30:1,2,6 
32:11 43:25 
53:20 58:10 
61:1,9 62:3 
Terry's 3:15 
test 15:7 36:16 
38:17 43:24 
50:4 56:5 58:9 
58:10 

testified 10:1 
38:16 49:24 
61:22 

testify 10:9 49:9 
testimony 11:9 

16:22 17:9 

tests 30:2 58:21 
Thank 4:12 19:1 

29:18,19,23
59:22 60:16 
62:10 

thing 10:16 
21:14 29:1 
33:19 54:10 
59:18 

things 9:20 
10:12 33:9 
41:16,16 43:22 
46:18 47:8 
50:19,20

think 5:23 10:3 
14:14 21:4,16
21:21,21 22:11 
22:13,20 23:9 
24:5,6,7 25:9 
25:19,22 26:13 
27:1,13,14,19
27:23 28:6,21
29:25 30:13,14
30:18,19 31:21 
32:13,16 33:16 
34:5 35:11,16 
35:18 36:13,13
37:4 39:16,18 

72 

Alderson Reporting Company 

39:22 40:1 
42:13 43:4,10 
43:22 44:9,22 
45:20,25 46:3 
46:23 47:10,14 
47:16 48:18,19 
49:1,24 50:5,6 
50:25 51:12,25 
52:23 53:3,4 
53:21 54:17 
57:5,18 58:5,7 
58:12,19 59:7 
60:3,6,8,12,13 
60:14 61:18 
thinking 31:19 
thinks 8:15 
21:11 23:8 
31:4 44:12 
55:8 

third 42:18,19 

59:18 

thought 8:25,25 

10:1 12:21 
16:23 17:1,24 
18:17 39:7 
41:8 44:6 49:4 
49:12 52:8 

threat 9:21,22 

12:9 54:18 
58:11,13 60:5 
60:15 

threatening 

31:18 

threatens 58:21 
three 59:5 
ticketed 16:4 
time 5:4 18:25 

19:10,15 20:16 
32:16 36:8 
42:6 44:1,7 

tire 21:10 22:2 

TOBY 1:17 2:5 

25:18 

19:3 

tone 46:7,12,14 
49:17,17,19,22 

totality 12:19 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

voluntary 10:10  white 18:9

43:10

Whren 57:24
wide 28:22
Wilson 15:21
19:18 23:1,1
23:10,11 33:11 
60:21,21

window 45:10
woman 42:12
word 10:3 18:5 
words 11:11
34:23 38:3
world 28:23
worry 55:7
worth 29:3
wouldn't 14:19
50:11,13 57:3 

wriggle 39:15
wrong 27:19,22
wrongdoing

51:2,3 60:24 

X

x 1:2,7

Y

Yeah 28:13

0

07-1122 1:5 3:4 

1

10:00 40:10
10:02 1:13 3:2 
11:07 62:12
13 29:12
14 29:12
19 2:7

2
2008 1:9
29 2:9

3

3 2:4
31 53:11
32 53:11

36:15 49:18 

totality-of-the... 

56:5 

totally 36:24 

38:14 

traffic 3:14,15 
3:24 4:10,16 
4:20 6:9 8:4,22 
9:3,13,16,16 
12:1 14:22,25 
15:16,23 19:13 
19:20 20:1 
22:8,16,21 
23:23 24:1 
25:12,14 27:9 
32:5 37:17 
40:14,22 41:15 
47:3 60:25 
61:3,14,20 
62:2,3 

transforms 

U 

ultimately 24:23 

36:21 39:3 

uncertain 47:11 

56:4 

24:1 

42:1 

W

wait 30:17 46:25 

unconstitutio... 

50:8

4:25 
walking 50:14
underlying 
wander 33:23
48:20,23 49:1  want 7:3 17:13 
understand 13:9 
18:10 21:15
20:17 26:3 
27:25 38:7,8
29:5 55:10 
41:22 42:6,13
understood 26:2 
43:8 44:15
unique 25:13 
48:4 56:7
United 1:1,12,19  wanted 10:7
2:6 19:4 
unknowns 12:1  wants 21:10
unlawful 6:14 
57:25 
warnings 40:11
unmarked 59:7 
unquestioned  Washington 1:8
14:23 
wasn't 4:6 28:18 

1:18,21

18:12

40:15

26:5

20:10 
Trevizo 9:19,25  unrelated 37:10 
10:19 18:23 
19:11 29:10 
56:12 61:5,21 

unseize 25:9 
uphold 3:13 
urban 33:19,24 
34:21 42:23,25 
43:1 49:20 
50:3,10,15,16 

use 11:24 
usually 12:2 

16:6 

V

v 1:5 3:4,12 
valid 16:7 
vehicle 3:13 
19:19 21:7 
34:18,19 

view 5:11,12,13 

6:22 11:19 
16:24 26:11,13 
29:10 

violation 8:22 

22:8 23:5 
37:18 62:5 
virtue 23:22 

32:20 39:2 
43:6 58:18

way 6:6,8 17:11 
20:1 23:11,23
36:23 42:7
44:14 46:7,8
58:22 60:7

weapon 16:12
wear 31:15
wearing 31:14

59:2,13,13
weigh 13:9
weighing 13:8
went 23:11,23
West 30:16
we'll 26:9
we're 9:22 17:19 

17:25 24:24
30:20 35:9,13
35:13 45:13 
47:9,17 56:9 
56:22

we've 30:7 41:14 

trouble 7:1,5 

8:15 

true 18:19 24:3 

29:1 40:2 
61:15 

try 45:21 47:4 
trying 44:24 

54:1 

Tucson 1:16 
Tuesday 1:9 
turf 50:13 
turn 34:14 37:9 
turns 34:12 
two 7:16,18 

10:12 19:10 
25:2 30:2 
31:23 36:5,23 
42:18 45:1 
47:21 58:21 

type 31:15 
typical 50:23 

73 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

5


6


7


5 53:11


60 2:12


7 51:2


9


9 1:9 24:10


74


Alderson Reporting Company 

