Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
       
JAMES B. PEAKE, SECRETARY 
: 
            
:
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS, 
          
Petitioner 
:
                       
:  No. 07-1209 
             
WOODROW F. SANDERS. 
: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, December 8, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:04 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor

 General, Department of Justice, Washington,
 D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner. 

CHRISTOPHER J. MEADE, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of

 the Respondent Simmons. 

MARK R. LIPPMAN, ESQ., La Jolla, Cal; on behalf of the 
Respondent Sanders. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


CHRISTOPHER J. MEADE, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent Simmons 

            

24


MARK R. LIPPMAN, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent Sanders 

            

35


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

47


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:04 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument first this morning in Case 07-1209, Peake v. 
Sanders et al.

 Mr. Miller.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. MILLER:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court.

 Congress has directed the Veterans Court to 

take due account of the rule of prejudicial error in 
reviewing administrative determinations of veterans 
benefits.  For four reasons, the court of appeals erred 
in holding that the Veterans Court should presume the 
existence of prejudice whenever it finds that the VA has 
erred in providing notice to the claimant.

 First, section 7261, the Veterans Court 
prejudicial errors statute, is in language that is 
essentially identical to that of the APA's prejudicial 
error provision.  And when Congress adopted that 
language in 1988, it was understood to place upon the 
party challenging an agency's action the burden of 
showing that any error was prejudicial.

 Second, a notice error of the kind at issue 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

here does not --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why do you say that?  That 
it was understood so?  Because of the Attorney General's 
commentary on that?

 MR. MILLER:  The principal reason that it 
was understood is because the uniform practice in the 
courts of appeals as of 1988 was to place upon 
challengers to agency action the burden of showing 
prejudice from the error.  And the Congress was well 
aware of that, and in particular the Senate Veterans 
Affairs Committee was cited in the Ninth Circuit's 
decision in Seine & Line Fishermen's Union.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You basically have 

four cases in the courts of appeals to support that 
proposition, right?

 MR. MILLER:  Well, Your Honor, it's 

considerably more than that.  And the only cases that 
could even suggest any support to the contrary rule are 
in the very different context of notice and comment 
rulemaking under section 553.

 And the reason that that's different is 

really for two reasons.  That is that the -- the 
interest that section 553 is intended to protect is not 
the interest of any particular commenter or particular 
outcome of the rulemaking.  It's the interest of the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

public in having the agency's decisionmaking fully 
informed by all of the relevant comments.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but this is --
I mean, it's kind of the -- it's the first notice.  It 
gets the ball rolling.  I think it's like, you know, two 
teams and you don't tell one of the teams when the game 
starts and then you say, well, it doesn't matter because 
they would have lost anyway, there is no prejudice.

 MR. MILLER:  The reason that in a great many 
cases there is not going to be prejudicial error of the 
kind at issue here is that the VA has an informal 
non-adversarial system and many opportunities to correct 
the effect of any official notice error.  That is 
illustrated by the history of the cases.  To take the 
Ms. Simmons's case, for example --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Can we go back to the 

question that was just posed?  We have never held that 
every agency -- agencies come in many sizes and shapes, 
but in all cases, the APA places the burden on the -- on 
the petitioner.  But this Court has never held that 
across the board, no matter what agency we are talking 
about, that's the rule.

 MR. MILLER:  That's correct.  This Court has 
not held that.  But Congress was aware that the uniform 
practice, certainly in agency adjudications in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

courts of appeals, was to place the burden on the 
challenger, and Congress --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Was Congress aware of this 

when the Administrative Procedure Act was passed, you 
mean?

 MR. MILLER:  No, the statute at issue here 

is the Veterans Judicial Review Act of 1988.  So the 
relevant time we are looking at what the practice was is 
as of 1988 when Congress incorporated the language from 
the APA and placed it into section 7261.  And as of 
1988, it was clear that the burden was on the 
challengers.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Can I ask you to clarify 

exactly what you mean by the "burden" of showing 
prejudice?  Is it correct that neither of the following 
-- to borrow the terminology that you would use in 
formal litigation, and I understand this is not formal 
litigation before an agency, but to borrow that 
terminology, is it correct that the issue here doesn't 
concern either the burden of production or the risk of 
nonpersuasion before the administrative agency?  Before 
the regional office?  In other words, if there's -- if 
there is evidence that the veteran as opposed to the VA 
has to produce, that doesn't change, and whatever the 
standard is that has to be met to show an entitlement to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

benefits, that doesn't change either, so that all that's 
involved here is whether -- whatever showing needs to be 
made is to be made on appeal or on remand?

 MR. MILLER:  That's correct.  If we are 

talking about what showing needs to be made on appeal. 
And as this Court suggested in O'Neal, you know, the 
burden language is perhaps more appropriate for the 
context where there's people presenting competing 
evidentiary submissions to a factfinder and that's not 
what we have here.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's in O'Neal.  It says 

that, but most of the court joined and the reason it 
says it is it just confuses everybody, at least me, to 
talk about "burden" in this context.  I think if O'Neal 
is right, it says what this is, is not involving a jury, 
not involving -- it's just what Justice Alito says, and 
following that, what you have, you say to the judge, 
"Judge, your job is to decide this.  Decide.  Decide 
whether you think that the one side -- whether there is 
error or whether the error is harmless or whether it 
isn't.  Decide it."

 Now, it could be in a rare instance the 

judge just can't decide.  He's in grave doubt.  And so 
what we are talking about is what to do in that -- what 
should be a very, very rare instance. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Now, when I read this case, I thought the 

Veterans Affairs is absolutely common sense on this.  It 
says, well, when you really don't know what to do, 
Judge, if the veteran got no notice at all, then 
probably the error was harmful.  But if he got the basic 
notice, and all that's at issue is who should produce 
what or whether he thinks that he didn't know that he's 
supposed to produce a lot of information, well, there, 
it would be pretty rare that it was harmful.  So then 
you'd better say to him, veteran, why did this hurt you?
 That's all common sense, and it seemed to me 
that that's what the Veterans Court was saying and then 
the Federal Circuit unfortunately, like I might have 
done, too, got it all mixed up with this burden of proof 
language.  Now, you tell me, legally is that result 
which I am talking about sensible, and if so, how do I 
get there legally?

 MR. MILLER:  Justice Breyer, the reason that 

we have used the language of "burden" --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm not criticizing you for 
that.  I'm not -- it's not a criticism.  I'm just really 
trying to figure out to get to what I see as common 
sense legally.

 MR. MILLER:  The point that we are trying to 

emphasize is that, in the ordinary course the Veterans 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Court, like any court, is going to act on the basis of 
arguments that are presented to it by the parties.  So 
when you speak of the "burden," you mean the challenger 
has the obligation, if it wants the Veterans Court to 
find prejudice -- to articulate some theory of how there 
was prejudice.  And that --

JUSTICE BREYER:  The theory is he didn't 

know anything about this, got no notice whatsoever, so 
he didn't know that he's supposed to produce more 
information or he'll lose.  That's the theory.

 MR. MILLER:  But in order to -- in order to 
connect that error -- I mean, that's an identification 
of an error under the Veterans Claims Assistance Act. 
But if you connect error --

JUSTICE BREYER:  But if you connect it by 
saying normally a veteran who isn't that knowledgeable 
-- not everybody is a genius in law -- when he doesn't 
get a notice that tells him you got to produce something 
more or you lose, he might forget to produce something 
more.  That's the theory.

 MR. MILLER:  If he has something more.  And 
what we are saying is that in order to get a remand, the 
claimant, by the time they get to the Veterans Court, 
has already identified the error, has made an argument 
to explain to the court that there was in fact an error, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

at that point they ought to explain how the error 
affected them.  If it prevented them from put in a piece 
of evidence, they ought to tell the court, "Here's the 
piece of evidence that I want to put in."

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, usually, when 

you have an appellate court, with a hard question, is 
easily divided, the case is resolved on the basis of the 
standard of review.  What is the presumption, if it's a 
close case?  And why isn't that all sort of what we are 
talking about here?  It's a close case, and the judge --
the panel says, well, this side has the burden of 
persuasion, so we're going to come out the other way.

 MR. MILLER:  Because I think in a case where 

the -- like these, where plaintiff has not identified 
anything that they would have done differently, it isn't 
a close case with respect to the question.

 Now, we have to be clear:  If a claimant can 

articulate something they would have done differently, 
we are not saying they have the obligation of showing 
that the outcome definitely would have been different or 
more likely than not, it would have been different.  It 
would be sufficient to identify what they would have 
done differently.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, what if what 

they would have done differently is get different 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

medical tests, or done something like that, or have the 
doctor in the prior testing who prepared the diagnosis 
look at something that they didn't have them look at 
before?  In other words, it's not simply the absence of 
documents that they know they can submit or could have 
submitted.  It's that type of question where nobody 
knows.  I mean, you don't know what would have happened 
if they had the doctor look at the issue that now turns 
out to be critical, but if they had gotten the right 
notice they might have had time to do that.

 MR. MILLER:  Well, depending on the state of 

the record in a particular case, that might be 
sufficient to show a reasonable probability that the 
outcome would have been different.  But in a lot of 
cases it won't be, and I think Simmons's case is a good 
example of that.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But if the government has 

the obligation at the very first to tell the veteran 
what the veteran must produce to substantiate the claim 
and the government doesn't do that, why shouldn't it be 
the responsibility of the government to say to the 
court, "this is what, if we had done what we were 
supposed to do, this is what we would have included in 
our notice."  And looking at that, the court can tell 
whether there's anything the veteran might have done. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

But why shouldn't the government at least have the 
obligation to say what it would have done had it 
complied with the statute, what it would have said 
specifically in this case?

 MR. MILLER:  Well, I mean, how does the 

government comply, to take Simmons's case as an example, 
when the VA sent her the notice letter, her claim was 
for an increased rating.  She had a hearing loss that 
had already been determined to be service-connected, but 
was not sufficiently severe to be compensable, and she 
said:  My hearing has gotten worse and it now is 
severely worse to be a compensable disability.  The 
notice letter that was sent to her, which is on page 43 
of the joint appendix, was incorrect and simply 
described the general requirements for establishing a 
service connection.  It didn't specifically say to make 
out an increased rating claim you have to show that your 
hearing has become worse.

 But as soon as she got a decision from the 

regional office, which is the first decisionmaker in the 
VA system, she was told that the reason her claim had 
been denied was because her hearing loss was not 
sufficiently severe.  And there's a mechanical 
application of the certain number of decibels in each 
ear yields a certain disability rating, and the notice 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that she got from the regional office explained all of 
that and cited the regulation that we produced in the 
tables.

 So at that point she was aware of why her 

claim had been denied and what was missing, namely, 
evidence that her hearing had become worse.  And she had 
been given at that point a series of hearing 
examinations -- examinations for hearing by VA doctors 
and the results of those were all reproduced in the 
decision that she got.  And yet, the Veterans Court 
found that the government had failed to carry its burden 
of showing a lack of prejudice, because we couldn't show 
as a matter of law that there was no way she could 
obtain --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Which is fine.  If I get 
that record and if it is the way you describe, I'm not 
in grave doubt.  No problem.  The record's the way you 
described it, she knew everything she was supposed to 
know, so there's no harmful error, okay?  We are only 
talking about cases where there is real doubt in the 
judge's mind about whether this failure of the agency 
did or did not hurt the woman or man.  Now, when in 
doubt, we have the Veterans Court telling us the best 
way to administer this stuff is when they get no notice 
at all, and you are really in doubt, judge, you don't 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

know if it was harmful or not, here's what you do: 
Assume it was harmful.  They're the ones who know.  I 
don't know.

 MR. MILLER:  With respect, Your Honor, I 

don't think that's a fair description of the effect of 
the rule adopted by the court below.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Suppose then we look at our 
rule, we read the first paragraph, what this court said, 
and we all held it, and therefore, we say, those are the 
cases we're talking about, where you are in doubt, and 
when you are in doubt, go proceed as the Veterans Court 
told you in terms of who has to show what.

 MR. MILLER:  I think this case is a good 

illustration about why that sort of grave doubt you are 
describing doesn't arise in a case like this, where at 
no state in the proceedings has the claimant offered 
anything that they would have done any differently.  If 
they can't say, you know, here's what would have 
happened differently, than there really isn't any doubt 
what will happen on the remand, because if on the remand 
if they don't do anything different then the result is 
not going to be any different.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Maybe I am not following 
this as I should, but it seems to me you are suggesting 
that there is no error. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. MILLER:  No, certainly there was an 

error.  There was an error.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  What was the error?
 MR. MILLER:  The error was that the initial 
letter that was sent to her describing what the evidence 
needed to -- that she needed to submit in order to 
establish her claim, misidentified that evidence; that 
it described the elements of general claim for service 
connectiveness, didn't specifically explain what was 
needed just an increased rating claim.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Are you saying that error 
was not prejudicial because the earlier information she 
received gave her what she needed?

 MR. MILLER:  The principal reason why that 
error was not prejudicial is because the only way she 
could have received benefits for an increased rating 
claim was evidence that her hearing had become worse. 
And she had a VA hearing test that said her hearing did 
not meet the schedule A criteria for being compensable 
damages.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Why wasn't that statement 

you just made sufficient to discharge the burden of 
showing no prejudice?

 MR. MILLER:  The fact -- I -- we believe it 
shouldn't, then.  But under the rule as imposed by the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

courts below, it clearly wasn't.

 Under the decision of the Federal Circuit, 
the VA has the burden of showing that there was no way 
that benefits could have been awarded as a matter of 
law.  And that had been in effect prior to the VA 
proving negative by demonstrating the non-existence of 
any evidence anywhere that might have been material to 
the claim.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You know -- it's 
easy to look back and view this in the abstract legal 
terms, but we are dealing with lay people who are trying 
to get something from the government, which is always a 
difficult thing.  And you have one notice saying you 
have got to show that this was during the service, then 
they get another notice or decision saying it wasn't 
severe enough.  Why is it so difficult, when the 
government made a mistake in dealing with this layperson 
who is just trying to get benefits to which they are 
entitled, to say that the government has to show that it 
didn't make any difference, rather than requiring the 
layperson to do that?

 MR. MILLER:  Well, because there are two 

responses.  The first is that it's important to keep in 
mind the stage of the proceedings which this inquiry 
involved.  The prejudicial inquiry is only at issue once 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the claimant has reached the Veterans Court, which is an 
adversary proceeding in which claimants do have counsel, 
and they identified an error and they have explained to 
the court:  Here's what the error was.  So that's the 
stage in which it would be incumbent upon them to 
articulate how the error might have affected them.

 The other point to be made is under the rule 

of the court of appeals it's going to be very, very 
difficult in many cases for the government to discharge 
the burden of showing there is no evidence that could 
have possibly been produced.  And the result is a large 
number of remands.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And as between the two 

courts, the court of appeals, the Veterans Court and the 
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, do we owe 
either of them, maybe not deference in the Chevron 
sense, but some deference because of their expertise in 
dealing with these claims, and if that is so then do we 
owe more deference to the court of appeals or the 
Veterans Court?

 THE WITNESS:  I'm not aware that this Court 

has ever --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I mean it's an issue of 

law, so I take it it's de novo.

 MR. MILLER:  It's certainly that. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But in the exercise of 
that review, don't we have to give some weight to the 
determination of the Court of Appeals for Veterans 
Claims that sees these claims all the time?  I actually 
thought that that's where you were going to start out 
because you cited 7261, which says that the Court of 
Appeals for the Federal Claims shall, what, give due 
effect to -- take due account of the rule of prejudicial 
error.  And I think you could get from that that they 
have a certain amount of latitude in determining what 
the best rule is.  But you're not going to -- you don't 
tell us that?

 MR. MILLER:  No, and I think that by 

adopting language from the APA using the same language 
that applies to all kinds of judicial review of agency 
actions, Congress strongly suggested that it didn't want 
a unique rule for judicial review of VA determinations. 
And so I think there is no reason to defer to either the 
Veterans Court or the Federal Circuit on this general 
question of the standard of prejudicial review.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask a factual 

question.  You said most of these people were 
represented by counsel.  There used to be a rule that 
they could only be paid ten dollars a case.  Is that 
still in effect? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. MILLER:  When I said they were 

represented by counsel, I meant in the Court of appeals 
for Veterans Claims, not at the administrative --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But not during the nisi 

prius proceeding.

 MR. MILLER:  In the administrative 

proceeding the restrictions on payment of counsel have 
now been relaxed at the Court of Veterans Appeals stage. 
So there generally -- there is not counsel at the 
regional office, but once the case reaches the board 
there can be counsel.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  There can be counsel.  But 

is it really typical?

 MR. MILLER:  I don't know the statistics on 

that, because --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  There would be a dramatic 
change, because years ago I remember a case in which the 
Court upheld a ten-dollar fee limit on the notion that 
these people didn't need lawyers at all, which struck me 
as a little strange.

 MR. MILLER:  In any event, that is no longer 

the case at the board level, and even those claimants 
who do not have counsel, the great majority of them, I 
think about three-quarters at the regional office level 
and 98 percent at the board level are represented by 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

some sort of non-attorney representative, either service 
organizations like the American Legion, or many States 
have organizations that assist claimants.  Like Ms. 
Simmons, for example, was represented by a North 
Carolina State agency before the VA.  So there is some 
assistance to claimants there.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Mr. Miller, could you help 

me out on how the system works in practice in a 
different way?  One of your answers a few moments ago 
was that when -- I think it was Ms. Simmons was told why 
she lost, she in effect got as much notice as she would 
have needed to have to in effect do better on a remand. 
My first question is:  Is there an automatic right to a 
remand?

 MR. MILLER:  If you are talking about after 
the initial decision from the regional office, there is 
not an automatic right to a remand, but there is an 
automatic right to a de novo review by a more senior 
official at the regional office.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  With new evidence?
 MR. MILLER:  Yes.  You can get a hearing. 
You can present new evidence.  It's a decision review 
officer.  And then if you are still dissatisfied with 
the resolution after that, you can go to the board, and 
you can get a hearing before the board.  The board's 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

review is de novo.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  But even on the --
on the functioning of the system as you have explained 
it, at the -- at the very least the person says -- let's 
assume Simmons says:  Oh, now I understand and I will 
get the following piece of evidence, which I didn't 
realize was my responsibility.

 Even on that explanation, it means that the 
claimant is going to have to go through another stage in 
the administrative litigation process.

 So I assume that ought to count as some sort 

of prejudice, and I assume it's something that, as it 
were, the burden of championing the VA ought to bear 
rather than the claimant.

 MR. MILLER:  Well, I guess to the extent 
that the delay in adjudicating the claim is a kind of 
prejudice, it's not a prejudice that would in any sense 
be cured by a remand for further proceedings, which will 
just result in further delay.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  If the -- I'm sorry.  I 

didn't mean to interrupt.

 MR. MILLER:  I would just add that the --

the effective date of the claim, which is the date as of 
which benefits are awarded, is the date the claim was 
filed, so you wouldn't be losing money when you --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

except for the --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, but you are going to 

have to go through another stage of litigation.  One of 
the functions of the burden rule, and it might be too 
subtle a function to worry much about, but one of the 
functions is to puts the party with the burden on -- on 
notice that if you fail in your obligation, you're the 
one who is going to have to pay, unless you can convince 
everybody that there was in fact no harm done by this. 
And this induces the party with the burden to do what 
the primary obligation says the party ought to do.

 And on your -- and on your analysis, since 

the government would not have that obligation, the 
government has less of an inducement to follow the 
statutory obligation.

 MR. MILLER:  But the government has a very 
strong inducement to follow the statutory obligation. 
Like every agency -- -

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, it may have a strong 

inducement, but I'm talking about a stronger one.  If 
the government knows that it is going to bear the burden 
of any doubt about the significance of its failure, to 
some extent I suppose that is going to induce the 
government to be on its toes.

 MR. MILLER:  Well, I suppose that is right, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

but I think in a lot of cases -- the VA in all cases 
strives conscientiously to comply with its statutory 
obligations.  The notice requirements as described in 
section 5103 are fairly vague.  They -- the notice has 
to be tailored, at least to some extent, to the nature 
of the claim that's presented.  And every time that the 
Veterans Court or the Federal Circuit elaborates on 
exactly what kind of notice is required, to the extent 
that the VA wasn't aware of that elaboration before, 
there are going to have to be remands in all those 
pending cases.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, I mean that's the 
essential problem with common law adjudication.  And 
there is not much we can do about that.

 MR. MILLER:  But it's a problem that is 

particularly acute here, given the volume of claims that 
the VA has.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What is the experience? 
When the case is remanded, it goes back to the -- does 
it go back to the regional?  Suppose the -- the veteran 
is now given an opportunity to present whatever 
additional substantiation.

 MR. MILLER:  The claim, when remanded from 
the Court of appeals for Veterans Claims, goes back to 
the board.  In most instances the board would then send 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it back to the regional office for further development.
 If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Miller.

 Mr. Meade.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER J. MEADE

 ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT SIMMONS

 MR. MEADE:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 I would like to make three points.  First, 
because notice is integral to the system that Congress 
designed, the VA's failure to provide notice is likely 
to prejudice the veteran.

 Second, it would be difficult for the 

veteran and comparatively easy for the government to 
carry a burden.  It would be difficult for the veteran 
because under the government's rule the veteran would 
need to engage in a speculative exercise, identifying 
what evidence would have been developed had the veteran 
been notified and had he received the full assistance of 
the agency.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Why is it a speculative 

enterprise?  If you are correct, and the proper 
resolution in a case like this is a remand, let's say 
all the way back to the regional office, and if before 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the regional office it's the veteran who will need to 
come forward with some evidence supporting the claim, 
why does it make sense to remand the case to the 
regional office if there is no possibility that when the 
case gets back there the veteran can come forward with 
medical evidence that's needed?

 MR. MEADE:  Two reasons, Justice Alito: 

First, it's not clear even in the Veterans Court that 
the veteran will have notice of what's required, a point 
I would like to address.

 But, second, if it's remanded, the process 

will develop as it should have in the first place, 
because under the statutory scheme there is both the VA 
and the veteran, the informed veteran, who have joint 
duties and together during an interactive process they 
develop the evidence together.  And during this 
interactive process, to answer to Justice Stevens's 
question, the veteran is prohibited from hiring a 
lawyer.  Without having the most basic notice of what's 
required, the veteran cannot participate in this 
process.  And the only way we can know how the process 
would really work would be to give the veteran the 
notice that he was entitled to in the first place and 
then allow the process to unfold as it should have.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  What if you have the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

situation -- and I think actually your co-Respondent's 
case illustrates this better than yours.  But you have a 
situation where the record as it has developed contains 
some evidence that supports the veteran's position and 
some evidence that supports the position in favor of 
denial of benefits.  The Veterans Administration all the 
way up through the process finds that the evidence 
contrary to the veteran's position is much stronger and 
denies the claim on that basis.  The veteran says:  I 
didn't get notice of what exactly I needed to prove.
 Now, if on remand to the regional office 

it's still going to be up to the veteran to come forward 
with medical evidence showing hearing loss or vision --
connecting the vision loss to something that happened in 
the service, why does it make sense to send it back if 
there's no possibility that the veteran is going to be 
able to do that when the case gets back?

 MR. MEADE:  Well, the answer is, first of 
all, that we don't know how the process would unfold 
once the veteran has notice.  Even if there is evidence 
in the record, we don't know what evidence would have 
been developed had the veteran had proper notice.
 In addition, veterans often are not --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Excuse me.  Why is that? 

I'm not sure I follow you on that point.  Once he's got 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

up to the next level and finds what the notice should 
have told him, why can't he come up with it then?

 MR. MEADE:  Well, for a few reasons.  First 

of all --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You say it's a de novo, 

right, at this next level?

 MR. MEADE:  First of all, it's unclear 

whether the veteran would even have notice even at that 
point.  None of the other requirements that the agency's 
is required to give are the same as the notice 
requirement.  However, if in appropriate cases they have 
given the actual notice by the time it reaches the 
Veterans Court, they can use that to rebut the 
prejudice.  And that's what the Veterans Court said in 
Vasquez-Flores.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  In your case did your 

client attend the initial hearing?

 MR. MEADE:  There was a medical examination 
that she didn't attend.  There was a question of where 
the notice was sent, and this is at 70a of the 
Petitioner's appendix.  There was confusion. 
Apparently, notice was sent to the wrong address by the 
agency.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, what's the first 

time that your client knew that this claim was going to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

be processed at a particular time or the first time your 
client knew it had been denied?  I just was never clear 
on the fact of what happened.  If the notice was lost in 
the mail, so how did she know there was a hearing at 
all, or did she?

 MR. MEADE:  She later informed the agency 
that she had changed her address.  But even it appears 
that further notices were sent to the wrong address.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'm just trying to -- it 

seems to me at the first hearing, if she in fact is 
there, they say, well, now you have to give us some 
notice.  And then at that point -- or some 
documentation, and at that point, at the initial 
hearing, everybody knows who has to produce what.

 MR. MEADE:  But there is not necessarily a 

hearing.  It was a medical examination that was supposed 
to be scheduled that she didn't attend, partly because 
of confusion of where the notice was sent.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Is there usually an 

initial hearing?

 MR. MEADE:  No.  There's only a hearing if 

the veteran requests it.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Okay.
 MR. MEADE:  There is no hearing unless the 
veteran requests it.  So here we have a situation where 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the veteran did not know what she needed to provide. 
She has two sets of claims, one for her left ear and one 
for her right ear.  Neither claim was intuitive.  And 
she couldn't figure out what she needed to do without he 
notice --

JUSTICE BREYER:  And so, why not just say 

that?  What's the big problem of saying, judge, and then 
you say just what you said?  And then the judge again 
won't be in doubt any more.  So there's no need for this 
case because, either -- either -- either the veteran's 
agency will say, look, I walked that veteran through the 
process, I walked him through the process, walking him 
through the process he was told everything he needed to 
know, and there is no real problem here.  It's just a 
formality that he didn't get the notice.  And if that's 
true, I'm not in any doubt, unless the veteran tells me 
that that's wrong, and here was something, okay?

 On the other hand, we have your case.  Your 
case, she didn't go to the doctor.  If she went to the 
doctor, maybe she would have found something out.

 Again, I have no doubt, there is harmful 
error.  So this case is a theoretical law professor's 
case that is never going to come up, because there is 
never any doubt.  Either the VA did walk him through it 
and it's no deal -- big deal, because she can't come up 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

with anything, or she can come up with something.

 MR. MEADE:  I agree that burdens only matter 

in a handful of cases, but it makes sense to put the 
burden on the government for a number of reasons.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  It certainly does because 
it makes sense to tell the government:  Government, you 
have to come up with every possible conceivable factual 
scenario and prove there wasn't a man from Mars who came 
in, and -- you know, that doesn't make sense.

 MR. MEADE:  But that's not what we ask for 
here.  First of all, if the veteran actually received 
notice during this dialogue that the government 
describes, then the government can point to that as a 
way to disprove prejudice.

 Second of all, veterans are often 

vulnerable.  They are often unrepresented in the 
Veterans Court.  Under the latest statistics, 64 percent 
are unrepresented at the beginning of the Veterans 
Court, 24 percent at the conclusion of the Veterans 
Court.  Many have psychological and mental disabilities 
like post-traumatic stress disorder.  Twelve percent of 
those who currently receive disabilities receive 
benefits for PTSD.

 And it's not clear -- this is not lawyers; 

this is not doctors trying to receive benefits.  This is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

not just lay people.  They are veterans who served the 
country --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I know all this and why 

don't you just tell the judge that and say:  Look at my 
client, judge, look at my client.  My client obviously 
isn't going to understand what to do unless the client 
is told.  And here my client wasn't told.

 I'm the judge, I'm not in any doubt, you're 

going to win, okay?

 So what I can't figure out is how to deal 

with this case, which as I said strikes me as a law 
professor's case that shouldn't make any difference in 
any real situation.

 MR. MEADE:  The reason is that it's helpful 
to have presumptions to deal with the typical case where 
we have in our case a first element notice error.  The 
question where the veteran does not even know what 
evidence he needs to put forward, in that case it makes 
sense because of the high likelihood of prejudice to 
have a general rule that the burden should be on the 
government and not on the veteran.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No court is going to 

accept as a showing of prejudice the idea that, here, 
look at my client as a layperson who didn't know what to 
do.  That's not going to be adequate, is it? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. MEADE:  I don't think it would be. 

That's why it makes sense to have a general presumption. 
In cases where the government can either show that the 
process worked as it should have or that the veteran 
actually received notice during the process, it can 
rebut that prejudice.

 In fact, in 2008 alone, the government has 

been able to do so.  And it has done so at least a dozen 
times in a number of cases, rebutting the burden of 
prejudice that was established by the Veterans Court.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What's wrong with 
Mr. Miller's response that at the very first level of 
review, you can start all over; and at that point you 
know precisely why your claim was denied?

 MR. MEADE:  Well, again, there are various 
levels of review.  But the notice to start that first 
level of appellate review does not necessarily give the 
veteran the notice that she is entitled to.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That was my 

question.  Is it -- is it -- I take it it's more than 
just a stamp saying "denied," right?  There is some 
explanation in every case?

 MR. MEADE:  Exactly.  There is a statutory 

requirement that a statement of reasons needs to be 
provided, but the statement of reasons don't necessarily 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

correlate with the detailed requirements under the 
notice statute.  Under Vasquez-Flores what the Veterans 
Court said was that the notice needs to be quite 
detailed and the denial letter in a particular case 
might not map on to those particular requirements.
 In October of this year, Congress went 

farther and said:  We want these notice letters to be 
even more detailed.  We want to give the veterans more 
notice, which shows that the Congress is concerned about 
these notice letters and wants to make it clear to the 
veteran what is required.

 Let me answer a point that Justice Alito 

raised before.  We are not asking here for a presumption 
of benefits.  All we are asking for is a remand so that 
the veteran can get notice and have the process proceed 
as it was meant to in the original circumstance.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Does the -- the notice 
can be given -- skipped entirely, as it was in Simmons 
case, or notice could be given but it's defective.  It 
can be defective in a major way, it can leave out -- you 
said Congress recently required a more detailed notice. 
Do we treat all those like, as long as the notice 
doesn't measure up fully to their statutory requirement, 
then the veteran goes back to square one?  And so, you 
wouldn't make any distinction between whether the notice 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was not given at all, and the case where the notice was 
given, but it was incomplete?

 MR. MEADE:  The question of whether the 

notice is okay or not, is a question for the Veterans 
Court, a factual finding.

 Generally, though, I would agree with you 

that either no notice or incomplete notice are the same 
and would trigger a first notice error.  There would be 
cases, I suspect, where the notice was erroneous, but 
only on a technical ground, that the Veterans Court 
would not think of as being a first level notice error.
 One final point I would like to make, Your 
Honor, is that in passing the statute Congress made it 
clear that it wanted to assist all veterans, including 
those whose claims did not appear meritorious on their 
face, and it did so by overruling the decision in Morton 
v. West in the Veterans Court.

 That case has said that a veteran needs to 
meet a certain minimal threshold before receiving VA's 
assistance, that first the veteran needs to show that 
the claim is well grounded.  Congress rejected that in 
passing the statute and said:  Congress wants to help 
all veterans, including those whose claims don't seem 
meritorious on the face and including those who can't 
make a threshold requirement.  And Congress specifically 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

rejected the policy rationale of the Veterans Court and 
said that they want -- Congress wants to use resources 
to help all veterans, including those whose claims are 
not meritorious on its face.

 Thank you, Your Honor.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Meade.

 Mr. Lippman.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK R. LIPPMAN
 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT SANDERS

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Thank you.  Mr. Chief Justice, 

and may it please the Court:

 Justice Br eyer, I would like to address one 

of the observations you made applying O'Neal and 
Kotteakos and the "grave doubt" standard.

 The problem here is that those standards 

assume a fully developed record.  That's why it's not a 
perfect fit here because the very notice failure, the 
defective notice, prevents a fully developed record.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, it seems -- what I 

was trying to get to, which I don't see how to quite get 
there -- it seems to me that if something really went 
wrong, if there -- there's no notice, that "veteran, you 
have to put in some material, or you are going to 
lose," if there is no notice of that, and he really 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

didn't get any notice during all this cooperative 
process, then I think the Veteran's Court is right.  At 
that point I think it's fair to assume that he's hurt.

 But if he got the notice -- and there'll be 
a few cases where he had nothing to produce, but a lot 
of them he would have had something to produce.  They 
know it, we don't know.  The Veteran's Court knows.  Now 
the other three matters -- who is supposed to produce 
what, and do you have general knowledge, can you produce 
whatever you want -- I would think it would be very rare 
that a veteran was hurt, if he knows the first, by not 
knowing the second, third and fourth.

 And therefore, I think he better come forth 
to explain in the brief, in the brief, why this matters. 
Now, that's what it seemed to me the Veterans Court set 
up.  They know about it.  They set that up.  It's common 
sense.  So, how do I get to a legal result that says 
just that?  Or can I or should I?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  I don't think you should, and 

if my case could be used as an example --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Your case is one where 

the veteran did get what they call the first level 
notice.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Correct.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So Justice -- the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

implication of Justice Breyer's question is that your 
client would lose, because your client did get the first 
level notice and you say that that's not good enough.
 MR. LIPPMAN:  That's correct.  He did not 

get the second or third level of notices; that is, what 
the government said it will get and what he was required 
to get.

 This is the letter or part of the letter, 
critical part of the letter he got.  It says:  "We are 
making reasonable efforts to help you get private 
records or evidence necessary to support your claim." 
So he had every reason to assume that the -- that the VA 
would get the evidence that was necessary.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Why doesn't this make sense 

in your case?  I think this illustrates what is 
troubling to me about the Federal Circuit's decision, 
but maybe I am missing the point.

 Your client was denied benefits for failure 

to show a causal connection, to show that his vision 
loss is service-related.  He provided evidence from two 
private ophthalmologists or optometrists providing very 
weak causes of -- evidence of causation.  One said it 
was not inconceivable that this was the cause of it.  He 
was examined by two VA doctors, who said it was more 
likely that this was caused by post-service infection 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

rather than by an explosion while he was in the service.

 Now if the case -- if the notice was 

defective, why does it not make sense to say to your 
client, show us that you can come up with some medical 
evidence that shows that this is service-related, 
something more than a doctor who says it's not 
inconceivable?

 Then it makes sense to remand it.  But if 
you can't do it on appeal, what sense does it make to 
remand it, where the same failure to provide evidence is 
going to doom his claim?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Two answers to that, Your 

Honor.

 The first is, the government makes the 

proposition that all we need to do is offer an 
explanation.  But in legal terms, that is a proffer on 
appeal, and that is every bit as evidential as the 
actual evidence itself.  Now, if we -- if we are to have 
a whole practice of proffers, it opens up a Pandora's 
box.  I mean, where -- where do you stop if you make an 
exception for extra-record evidence, when the statutes 
make it clear that the evidence or whatever you are 
using has to be before the agency.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Why is that such a tough 
thing to do?  It sounds like it's sort of -- is there 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

some law out there that stops you from saying in the 
brief in a paragraph that, we would just like you to 
know, Judge, that we had some evidence here, or we have 
some now that we want to present to them.  That's all.

 And then if I see that, I would say, my 

goodness -- and you describe it in three sentences.  Now 
what is -- the Constitution doesn't stop you from doing 
that, does it?  What stops you from doing that?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  The statutes stop you from 

doing that.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  They stop you, but the 

Veterans Court said to do it.  So -- and they are the 
one who know this area and they said you should have to 
do it.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  But with all due respect, I 

think the Veterans Court got it wrong.  I mean --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Between me and the Veterans 

Court, as to who knows best how to work this system, 
it's ten to one it's not me.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Okay.  Let's look at it this 

way.  Let's take it outside the VCAA context.  A veteran 
has a right to a hearing, an evidentiary hearing, upon 
request.  Let's say he requests the hearing, and for 
whatever reason the VA doesn't schedule one.  He loses 
that right even though he requests it.  Are we then now 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to have proffers on the court of appeals saying, well, I 
would have said this, I would have said this, I would 
have said --

JUSTICE BREYER:  What they decided there is 
if there's no notice at all, no, you don't have to have 
a proffer, because it's up to the agency to do just what 
you want.  But if it's one of these other three, far 
more technical things, which occur far more rarely, on 
that one, you better tell the judge in the brief how it 
makes a difference.

 That's their conclusion.  What's wrong with 

that?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Well, there -- there is 

certainly no analysis to it.  I mean, it's sort of an 
intuitive distinction and in my case, it doesn't work.

 And I think --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, the -- the statute 
says, and this is consistent with Justice Breyer's line 
of questioning, that the Veterans Court, the Court of 
Appeals, the Veterans Court of Appeals, shall give due 
account to the notice -- to the rule of prejudicial 
error.  That seems to me to indicate that it has some 
discretion in how to decide the harmless error rules 
that it will apply, and that it knows more about it, in 
Justice Breyer's term, than either we or the Court of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  Why can't I get that 
out of this statute?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Well, I guess you would have 
to reconcile the more specific statute that deals with 
only able to submit evidence or any other material at 
the time -- at the of the agency's adjudication.  In 
other words, I don't see that statute allowing 
post-agency adjudication proffers or even submitting 
evidence.  I mean, just by the very line of your 
questioning, it seems to me that you find it 
interchangeable whether you assert it in your brief that 
this is what I would have done or whether you would have 
submitted the evidence itself.  They are both 
evidential.  And another problem, which is really --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Your position seems to be 
not that the government should have to show prejudice, 
but as applied to a case like yours, that there is an 
irrebuttal presumption of prejudice.  What could the 
government show?  They would have to show that there is 
not a single ophthalmologist in the country who, if he 
or she examined Mr. Sanders, would find that the vision 
loss was attributable to a bazooka explosion in World 
War II?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  No, Your Honor.  The -- what 

the government must show is well set forth in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Federal Circuit's opinion.  It must show that the 
claimant had either actual knowledge of what he needed 
to submit; second, that he had some constructive 
knowledge, in other words a reasonable claimant would 
have had notice; or three, that the claim couldn't 
entitled to benefits as a matter of law.

 So that's the beauty --
JUSTICE BREYER:  -- but I don't understand 
that.  I mean, let's suppose, contrary to your wishes, 
that the client was not hurt.  He was hurt by some other 
thing, nothing to do with the bazooka.  That's not your 
client -- that's the imaginary client -- but everything 
else is the same.

 Well, does that mean because they forgot to 

tell the client that the client has to go and produce 
some evidence, and she thought the Veterans 
Administration would produce all the evidence?  Because 
they forgot that, your client wins and gets the money?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Well --
JUSTICE BREYER:  That doesn't seem --
MR. LIPPMAN: -- he wouldn't get the money, 

okay?  Because all -- we are talking about a remand, not 
a --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I know.  Now you are going 

to be back in the remand and you now have to produce 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

some evidence, don't you, or you lose?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Correct.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  So then why is it a big 

deal that you summarize what you're going to produce in 
the brief?  We're back where we started.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Let me answer it this way. 

Let's assume we do make proffers, as you suggest, at the 
Veterans --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I might have called them a 
proffer.  I just want to say it's a description in the 
brief of how you're hurt.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Well, in the legal sense I 
consider it the same thing.  Maybe Your Honors don't, 
but I do.  And -- let -- let's say he proffers or 
describes in his brief what medical evidence he needs to 
submit.

 How could he in good faith make a proffer 

and speculate on what the doctor -- let's say he is 
seeing a treating doctor.  And on page 49 in the 
footnote, there is a discussion of what I'm going to 
explain to you now.  But let's say he alleges, well, if 
I had gotten notice, I would have gone to my treating 
doctor, and I would have submitted questions and I would 
have submitted the claims file, but I can't know in good 
faith what the doctor would say.  It's inherently 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

speculative.  And that's one good policy reason, apart 
from the clear categorical language of the statute.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You started earlier, 

at one point, to say how this actually worked out in 
your case.  Could you just spend a minute to explain 
that?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  How --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How it makes a 

difference in your case.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Sure.  It was a little unclear 
until a case -- if I may answer it this way, Your Honor.
 My -- the Board of Veterans Appeals decided 
there was only one medical evidence it would follow, and 
that was the 2000 VA exam.  And that exam really denied 
the veteran because there was no corroborating medical 
evidence contemporary with his injury and the 
symptomology thereafter.  If I could have it go back 
down, what I would do is try to find what we call "buddy 
statements," lay statements, that would corroborate that 
he had symptoms from time of service and well on, which 
under a case called Buchanan is sufficient evidence to 
base a finding of service connection.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So why wasn't that 

enough for you to establish prejudice, regardless of who 
had the burden? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. LIPPMAN:  To make that allegation at the 

court of appeal that I would have gotten this?

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Uh-hmm.
 MR. LIPPMAN:  Quite frankly, I don't know if 

I would have gotten it.  I mean, I would try.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, you would 
phrase the prejudice in terms of what you would have 
done and what you weren't able to do, and which you can 
now go back and do if it's remanded.  You don't have to 
have the evidence that three people would say he was 
complaining about the vision loss at the time.  It just 
seems a reasonable thing to -- you know, maybe it is 
reasonable, maybe it's not; but the Veterans 
Administration has more knowledge about that.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Your Honor, in a way, the 

third prong of the Federal Circuit's analysis does that. 
It tells the government:  Look, if the veteran could not 
prove his claim, no matter what the facts -- evidentiary 
development was, then the veteran loses.

 So really it's all contained in the third 

prong.  And that's why the Federal Circuit's analysis in 
my opinion is so good.  It's because it doesn't make you 
go outside of the record to reach these issues, and it 
allows the government a lot of room to prove that it's 
not worthwhile, this claim's not worthwhile to, remand. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

I ask the Court to really carefully look at 

that because I know the Federal Circuit spent -- must 
have spent a lot of time in coming up with that 
analysis.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Do you know where this 

first level, second level -- I'm looking at the statute 
on page 98a of the petition.  And it seems to me all 
part of one.  It is one notice?  It doesn't seem to 
specify a second and a third.  It's describing the 
contents.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  "As part of that notice, 

the Secretary shall indicate which portion of the 
information and evidence is to be provided by the 
claimant and which portion by the Secretary."  The 
statute seems to be talking about one notice, not "first 
level," "second level."

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Well, they haven't enumerated 

it, Your Honor, as such.  But analytically it breaks 
down to that.  But the fourth element, because it says, 
look, you'll have to tell the claimant what the 
contents, what you need.  Then it says, well, what we 
are going to get for you, and then that's the second. 
And third one is what you have to get.

 The fourth one was engrafted upon it because 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

in the regs 3.159 has a more generalized advisement, in 
addition to this --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought that was taken 

out, the fourth one.  No?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Not to my knowledge, Your 

Honor.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And tell me what that is. 

It's not in the statute?

 MR. LIPPMAN:  No, it's in 3.159.  I don't 

recall the exact -- it's 38 C.F.R. 3.159.  I don't 
recall offhand the exact subdivision, Your Honor.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, it just tells that 

the Secretary requests the claimant provide any evidence 
in the claimant's possession that pertains to the claim.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  Right.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  That's fairly 

straightforward.

 MR. LIPPMAN:  It's not as important as the 
first, second, and third elements of the statute, for 
sure, Your Honor.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 MR. LIPPMAN:  Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Miller, you have 

four minutes remaining.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. MILLER:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
 I would like to make just three points. 

First, on the question of what is provided to the 
claimant after the denial in the regional office. 
Before they get to the Board of Veterans Appeals, the 
regional office issued them a statement of the case, and 
that's described at 38 C.F.R. 19.29, and that regulation 
has fairly detailed requirements about what has to be in 
there in terms of a description of the evidence, the 
description of the applicable laws and regulations and 
analysis of the board's conclusions, or the regional 
office's conclusions and its application of the law to 
the evidence.

 The second point --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So you think it's 
perfectly clear from that what gaps need to be filled 
in?

 MR. MILLER:  In many cases, it would be. 

But perhaps there would be some where it wouldn't, and 
of course in those cases if there can be some 
articulation of why it wasn't then we would agree --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  At that point is the 

claimant disentitled to have a lawyer?

 MR. MILLER:  No.  Once they file the notice 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of disagreement in the regional office and receive the 
statement of the case, they could then have a lawyer in 
the board.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But at the point they get 

the notice and they are trying to evaluate the 
significance of the notice, they are not entitled to a 
lawyer?

 MR. MILLER:  If you are referring to the 
statement of the case, by the time they receive the 
statement of the case they are at the stage of the 
proceedings where they could get a lawyer.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But what about the notice, 

the original notice?  They don't have a lawyer at that 
point?  That was Justice Souter's question.  I didn't --
MR. MILLER:  Oh, if you meant the original 

notice required by the statute.  No.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  No -- at the point where 

the statute requires original notice, they are not 
entitled to a lawyer.

 MR. MILLER:  Correct.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  We agree on that.  Now, 

they have gone through stage one of the litigation and 
they have lost.  And they are getting a statement of 
reasons.  At that point, are they entitled to have a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

lawyer?

 MR. MILLER:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But whether -- I guess the 
situation that I am concerned with is, the person up to 
that moment not only does not have, but is not entitled 
to have a lawyer.  The person then gets a piece of paper 
in the mail that says, "You lost.  These are the 
reasons."  If the person -- if the claimant then says, 
"I don't know what they are talking about.  I will go 
get a lawyer," then I can understand at that point a 
relatively sophisticated mind is going to come in to 
understand it.  But if the client simply reads it and 
says, "I really don't know what they are talking about 
here or at least I think I know what they are talking 
about, and I guess it's hopeless," the person is not 
likely to have legal advice.

 And what I'm getting at is that the person 

at that stage, at the moment the notice arrives, is in a 
position, I would think, of extreme relative 
disadvantage.

 MR. MILLER:  I think --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  You can see where I am 

going with the argument.

 MR. MILLER:  Yes.  The important point is 

that the only way the prejudicial error becomes an issue 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and really the paradigmatic case that we are talking 
about is where the veteran does get counsel and has 
reached the Veterans Court and has identified the error 
in a way that's persuasive to the Veterans Court, but 
nonetheless identifies no additional evidence that they 
would have --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, but it seems to me that 

there are two points at which the veteran is at a 
disadvantage.  And you are talking about the second of 
the two.  I am talking about the first of the two.  And 
the first of the two is the point at which the -- I 
mean, following the hearing, the veteran gets the notice 
and the veteran is not in a very sophisticated position 
to evaluate what the veteran is being told.

 MR. MILLER:  Yes, and a claimant who in the 
Veterans Court can say, you know, "I didn't understand 
and as a result I failed to present the -- because of 
the defective notice and my lack of understanding of the 
statement of the case, I didn't present this important 
piece of evidence, and here's how it would have been 
material," in that case, they would be entitled to a 
remand.  But a remand --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  When you have been 

saying "entitled to a lawyer," do you mean entitled to a 
lawyer or allowed to have a lawyer? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. MILLER:  Allowed to retain counsel.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You can finish 

your --

MR. MILLER:  I was just going to say that, 
given the volume of cases that the VA confronts, there 
is a serious harm to the system in unnecessary remands 
that have to be given priority over other cases and that 
divert resources from the adjudication of meritorious 
claims.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 The case is submitted.
 (Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

able 26:17 32:8 

41:5 45:8 

above-entitled 

1:12 52:13 
absence 11:4 
absolutely 8:2 
abstract 16:10 
accept 31:23 
account 3:12 
18:8 40:21 

act 6:4,7 9:1,13 
action 3:23 4:8 
actions 18:16 
actual 27:12 
38:18 42:2 
acute 23:16 
add 21:22 
addition 26:23 

47:2 

51:5 

additional 23:22 

address 25:10 
27:22 28:7,8 
35:13 

adequate 31:25 
adjudicating 

21:16 

adjudication 
23:13 41:6,8 
52:8 

adjudications 

5:25 

administer 

13:24 

Administration 

26:6 42:17 
45:14 

administrative 

3:13 6:4,21 
19:3,6 21:10 
adopted 3:21 

14:6 

adopting 18:14 
adversary 17:2 
advice 50:16 
advisement 47:1 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Affairs 1:4 4:11  appeal 7:3,5 

37:12 43:7 

39:18

attend 27:17,19  better 8:10
20:12 26:2
36:13 40:9

28:17 

automatic 20:13  board 5:21

38:9,17 45:2 

appeals 3:14 4:7 

41:22 

4:14 6:1 17:8  Attorney 4:3 
attributable 
17:14,15,19 
18:3,7 19:2,8 
23:24 40:1,20 
40:20 41:1 
44:12 48:6 
appear 34:15 
APPEARAN... 

20:17,18 

awarded 16:4 

21:24 

aware 4:10 5:24 

6:3 13:4 17:21  board's 20:25
23:9 

48:12

big 29:7,25 43:3 
bit 38:17

19:10,22,25
20:24,25 23:25 
23:25 44:12
48:6 49:3

borrow 6:16,18
box 38:20
Br 35:13
breaks 46:19
Breyer 7:11

8:18,20 9:7,15 
13:15 14:7
29:6 30:5 31:3 
35:20 38:24
39:11,17 40:4 
42:8,20,24
43:3,9

Breyer's 37:1

40:18,25

brief 36:14,14

39:2 40:9
41:11 43:5,11
43:15

Buchanan 44:21
buddy 44:18
burden 3:23 4:8 
5:19 6:1,11,14
6:20 7:7,14
8:14,19 9:3 
10:11 13:11
15:22 16:3
17:10 21:13
22:4,6,10,21
24:16 30:4
31:20 32:9
44:25

burdens 30:2

C

a.m 1:14 3:2 

52:12 
B

B 1:3
back 5:16 16:10 

23:19,20,24
24:1,25 25:5 
26:15,17 33:24 
42:25 43:5
44:17 45:9

ball 5:5
base 44:22
basic 8:5 25:19 
basically 4:13
basis 9:1 10:7 

26:9

bazooka 41:22

42:11

bear 21:13

22:21

beauty 42:7
beginning 30:18
behalf 1:18,19

1:21 2:4,6,8,11
3:8 24:7 35:10 
48:1

believe 15:24
benefits 3:14 7:1 

15:16 16:4,18
21:24 26:6
30:23,25 33:14 
37:18 42:6

best 13:23 18:11 

8:2 

agencies 5:18 
agency 4:8 5:18 
5:21,25 6:18 
6:21 13:21 
18:15 20:5 
22:18 24:21 
27:23 28:6 
29:11 38:23 
40:6 

agency's 3:23 
5:1 27:9 41:6 
ago 19:17 20:9 
agree 30:2 34:6 

48:22 49:22 

al 3:5 
Alito 6:13 7:16 
21:20 24:22 
25:7,25 33:12 
37:14 41:15 
allegation 45:1 
alleges 43:21 
allow 25:24 
allowed 51:25 

52:1 

1:15 

appears 28:7 
appellate 10:6 

appendix 12:14 

32:17 

27:21 

applicable 48:11 
application 

12:24 48:13 
applied 41:17 
applies 18:15 
apply 40:24 
applying 35:14 
appropriate 7:7 

27:11 

area 39:13 
argument 1:13 

allowing 41:7 
allows 45:24 
American 20:2 
amount 18:10 
analysis 22:12 

2:2,9 3:4,7 
9:24 24:6 35:9 
47:25 50:23 
40:14 45:16,21  arguments 9:2 
arrives 50:18 
46:4 48:12 
articulate 9:5 
analytically 
10:18 17:6 
articulation 

46:19 

answer 25:17 
26:18 33:12 
43:6 44:11 
answers 20:9 

38:12 

anyway 5:8 
APA 5:19 6:10 

18:14 

apart 44:1 
APA's 3:20 
Apparently 

27:22 

48:22 

asking 33:13,14 
assert 41:11 
assist 20:3 34:14 
assistance 9:13 

20:6 24:20 
34:20 

Assistant 1:16 
assume 14:2 
21:5,11,12
35:17 36:3

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

12:10,12 15:19  contemporary 

contents 46:10 

44:16 

46:22 

context 4:19 7:8 

7:14 39:21 
contrary 4:18 

26:8 42:9 

convince 22:8 
cooperative 

36:1 

correct 5:12,23 

6:15,19 7:4 
24:23 36:24 
37:4 43:2 
49:21 

correlate 33:1 
corroborate 

corroborating 

44:15 

counsel 17:2 

18:23 19:2,7,9 
19:11,12,23 
47:21 51:2 
52:1,10 

count 21:11 
country 31:2 

41:20 

course 8:25 

48:21 

court 1:1,13 

3:10,11,14,15 
3:18 5:20,23 
7:6,12 8:12 9:1 
9:1,4,23,25 
10:3,6 11:22 
11:24 13:10,23 
14:6,8,11 17:1 
17:4,8,14,14 
17:15,19,20,21 
18:3,6,19 19:2 
19:8,18 23:7 
23:24 24:9 
25:8 27:13,14 
30:17,19,20 
31:22 32:10 

C 2:1 3:1 
Cal 1:21 
call 36:22 44:18 
called 43:9 

44:21 

carefully 46:1 
Carolina 20:5 
carry 13:11 

24:16 

15:1 17:25 
30:5 40:14 

challenger 6:2 

challengers 4:8 

9:3 

6:12 

21:13 

case 3:4 5:15 8:1  change 6:24 7:1 

challenging 3:23  claimants 17:2 
championing 
19:22 20:3,6 

claimant's 47:14 
claims 9:13 

9:23 10:17 
14:16 17:1 
21:9,14 42:2,4 
46:15,21 47:13 
48:5,24 50:8 
51:15 

19:17 

claim's 45:25 

17:18 18:4,4,7 
19:3 23:16,24 
29:2 34:15,23 
35:3 43:24 
52:9 

5:3 10:5,24 
16:9 24:3,8 
31:22 32:11,19  clarify 6:13 
35:6,11 44:3,8 
44:23 45:3,6 
47:21,23 48:2 
48:16 51:23 
52:2,10 

10:7,9,10,13 
10:16 11:12,15  changed 28:7 
Chevron 17:16 
12:4,6 14:13 
Chief 3:3,9 4:13 
14:15 18:24 
19:10,17,22 
23:19 24:24 
25:3,5 26:2,17 
27:16 29:10,18 
25:8 28:2 
29:19,22,23 
30:24 33:10 
31:11,12,15,16 
34:14 38:22 
31:18 32:22 
33:4,19 34:1 
44:2 48:17 
34:18 36:20,21  CHRISTOPH...  clearly 16:1 
37:15 38:2 
40:15 41:17 
44:5,9,11,21 
48:7 49:2,9,10 
51:1,19,21 
52:11,12 

Circuit 8:13 
16:2 17:15 
18:19 23:7 
41:1 46:2 

client 27:17,25 

1:19 2:5 24:6 

Circuit's 4:11 
37:16 42:1 
45:16,21 

competing 7:8 
complaining 

45:11 

complied 12:3 
comply 12:6 

conceivable 

23:2 

30:7 

concern 6:20 
concerned 33:9 

50:4 

conclusion 

30:19 40:11 

conclusions 
48:12,13 

28:18 

Congress 3:11 
3:21 4:9 5:24 
6:2,3,9 18:16 
24:11 33:6,9 
33:21 34:13,21 
34:22,25 35:2 
connect 9:12,14 

28:2 31:5,5,5,6 
31:7,24 37:2,2 
37:18 38:4 
42:10,12,12,15 
42:15,18 50:12  connecting 

9:15 

close 10:9,10,16 
come 5:18 10:12  connection 

26:14 

confronts 52:5 
clear 6:11 10:17  confuses 7:13 

confusion 27:21 

44:19 

cases 4:14,17 
5:10,14,19 
11:15 13:20 
14:10 17:9 
23:1,1,11 
27:11 30:3 
32:3,9 34:9 
36:5 48:19,21 
52:5,7 

categorical 44:2 
causal 37:19 
causation 37:22 
cause 37:23 
caused 37:25 
causes 37:22 
certain 12:24,25 

18:10 34:19 
certainly 5:25 

33:16 

circumstance 

cited 4:11 13:2 

25:2,5 26:12 
27:2 29:23,25 
30:1,7 36:13 
38:4 50:11 
claim 11:19 12:7  coming 46:3 

18:6 

12:16 37:19 
44:22 

connectiveness 

15:9 

conscientiously 

12:17,21 13:5 
15:7,8,10,17 
16:8 21:16,23 
21:24 23:6,23 
25:2 26:9 
27:25 29:3 
32:14 34:21 
37:11 38:11 
42:5 45:18 
47:14 

23:2 

comment 4:19 
commentary 4:4  consider 43:13 
commenter 4:24  considerably 
comments 5:2 
Committee 4:11  consistent 40:18 
common 8:2,11  Constitution 

4:17 

8:22 23:13 
36:16 

comparatively 

24:15 

constructive 

39:7 

42:3 

contained 45:20 
contains 26:3 

claimant 3:17 

compensable 

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

5:1 

decisionmaking  developed 24:19 
26:3,22 35:17 
35:19 

33:3 34:5,10 
34:17 35:1,12 
36:2,7,15 
39:12,16,18 
40:1,19,19,20 
diagnosis 11:2 
40:25 45:2 
46:1 51:3,4,16  deference 17:16  dialogue 30:12 

33:20 35:19 
38:3 51:18 
defer 18:18 

defective 33:19 

development 
24:1 45:19 

documents 11:5 
doing 39:7,8,10 
dollars 18:24 
doom 38:11 
difference 16:20  doubt 7:23 

30:25 37:24 

documentation 

28:13 

courts 4:7,14 

17:17,19 

6:1 16:1 17:14  definitely 10:20 
co-Responden...  delay 21:16,19 
demonstrating 

26:1 

13:17,20,23,25  enumerated 
14:10,11,14,19 
22:22 29:9,16  ERIC 1:16 2:3 
29:21,24 31:8 
2:10 3:7 47:25 
35:15 

46:18 

differently 

dozen 32:8 
dramatic 19:16 
10:15,18,23,25  due 3:12 18:7,8 
14:17,19 

enterprise 24:23 
entirely 33:18 
entitled 16:19 
25:23 32:18 
42:6 49:6,20 
49:25 50:5 
51:21,24,24 

entitlement 6:25 

erred 3:14,17 
erroneous 34:9 
error 3:12,21,24 
3:25 4:9 5:10 
5:13 7:20,20 
8:5 9:12,13,14 
9:24,25 10:1 
13:19 14:25 
15:2,2,3,4,11
15:15 17:3,4,6
18:9 29:22 
31:16 34:8,11
40:22,23 50:25 
51:3 

errors 3:19 
ESQ 1:16,19,21

2:3,5,7,10

essential 23:13 
essentially 3:20 
establish 15:7 

44:24 

established 

32:10 

establishing

12:15 

et 3:5 
evaluate 49:5 

51:14 

event 19:21 
everybody 7:13 

9:17 22:9 
28:14 

evidence 6:23 
10:3,4 13:6 
15:5,7,17 16:7 

31:12 40:10 
44:9 

different 4:19 
4:21 10:20,21 
10:25 11:14 
14:21,22 20:9 

difficult 16:13 

16:16 17:9 
24:14,16 

directed 3:11 
disabilities 
30:20,22 

16:6 

48:5 

denial 26:6 33:4 

denied 12:22 

13:5 28:2 
32:14,21 37:18 
44:14 

denies 26:9 
Department 

1:17 

depending 

11:11 

describe 13:16 

disability 12:12 

39:6 

12:25 

described 12:15  disadvantage 
50:20 51:9 
disagreement 

13:18 15:8 
23:3 48:8 

describes 30:13 

43:15 

describing 
14:15 15:5 
46:9 

49:1 

17:9 

discharge 15:22 

discretion 40:23 
discussion 43:20 

description 14:5  disentitled 

43:10 48:10,11 
disorder 30:21 
designed 24:12 
detailed 33:1,4,8  disprove 30:14 

48:24 

33:21 48:9 

determination 

18:3 

determinations 

dissatisfied 

20:23 

distinction 

33:25 40:15 

3:13 18:17 

divert 52:8 
determined 12:9  divided 10:7 
doctor 11:2,8 
determining 

develop 25:12 

18:10 

25:16 

29:19,20 38:6 
43:18,19,23,25 

doctors 13:8 

criteria 15:19 
critical 11:9 

37:9 

criticism 8:21 
criticizing 8:20 
cured 21:18 
currently 30:22 
C.F.R 47:10 

48:8 

D 

D 1:16 2:3,10 
3:1,7 47:25 

damages 15:20 
date 21:23,23,24 
de 17:24 20:18 

21:1 27:5 

deal 29:25,25 

31:10,15 43:4 
dealing 16:11,17 

17:18 

deals 41:4 
December 1:10 
decibels 12:24 
decide 7:18,18 

7:18,21,23 
40:23 

decided 40:4 

44:12 

decision 4:12 
12:19 13:10 
16:2,15 20:16 
20:22 34:16 
37:16 

decisionmaker 

12:20 

39:15 40:20 
duties 25:15 
D.C 1:9,18 

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
ear 12:25 29:2,3 
earlier 15:12

44:3

easily 10:7
easy 16:10 24:15 
effect 5:13 14:5 

16:5 18:8,25
20:11,12

effective 21:23
efforts 37:10
either 6:20 7:1 

17:16 18:18
20:1 29:10,10
29:10,24 32:3 
34:7 40:25
42:2

elaborates 23:7
elaboration 23:9
element 31:16

elements 15:8

46:20

47:19

emphasize 8:25
engage 24:18
engrafted 46:25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

41:22 

explosion 38:1 

17:10 20:20,22  explanation 
21:8 32:22 
21:6 24:19 
25:2,6,16 26:4 
38:16 
26:5,7,13,20 
26:21 31:18 
37:11,13,20,22  extent 21:15 
38:5,10,18,21 
38:22 39:3 
41:5,9,13 
42:16,17 43:1 
43:15 44:13,16  eyer 35:13 
44:21 45:10 
F 
46:14 47:13 
48:10,14 51:5 
51:20 

F 1:7 
face 34:16,24 

22:23 23:5,8 
extra-record 

extreme 50:19 

38:21 

evidential 38:17 

35:4 

41:14 

evidentiary 7:9 

39:22 45:18 
exact 47:10,11 
exactly 6:14 
23:8 26:10 
32:23 

exam 44:14,14 
examination 
27:18 28:16 
examinations 

examined 37:24 

13:8,8 

41:21 

example 5:15 
11:16 12:6 
20:4 36:20 

exception 38:21 
Excuse 26:24 
exercise 18:1 

24:18 

existence 3:16 
experience 

23:18 

expertise 17:17 
explain 9:25 
10:1 15:9 
36:14 43:21 
44:5 

explained 13:1 

17:3 21:3 

fact 9:25 15:24 
22:9 28:3,10 
32:7 

factfinder 7:9 
facts 45:18 
factual 18:21 

30:7 34:5 

fail 22:7 
failed 13:11 

51:17 

failure 13:21 
22:22 24:12 
35:18 37:18 
38:10 

fair 14:5 36:3 
fairly 23:4 47:16 

48:9 

faith 43:17,25 
far 40:7,8 
farther 33:7 
favor 26:5 
Federal 8:13 
16:2 17:15 
18:7,19 23:7 
37:16 41:1 
42:1 45:16,21 
46:2 

fee 19:18 
figure 8:22 29:4 

31:10 

file 43:24 48:25 

filed 21:25 
filled 48:17 
final 34:12 
find 9:5 41:10 
41:21 44:18 
finding 34:5 

finds 3:16 26:7 

44:22 

27:1 

fine 13:15 
finish 52:2 
first 3:4,18 5:4 
11:18 12:20 
14:8 16:23 
20:13 24:10 
25:8,12,23 
26:18 27:3,7 
27:24 28:1,10 
30:11 31:16 
32:12,16 34:8 
34:11,20 36:11 
36:22 37:2 
38:14 46:6,16 
47:19 48:4 
51:10,11 

Fishermen's 

4:12 

fit 35:18 
follow 22:14,17 

26:25 44:13 
following 6:15 

7:17 14:23 
21:6 51:12 

footnote 43:20 
forget 9:19 
forgot 42:14,18 
formal 6:17,17 
formality 29:15 
forth 36:13 

41:25 

forward 25:2,5
26:12 31:18 
found 13:11 

four 3:14 4:14 

29:20 

47:24 

fourth 36:12 

46:20,25 47:4 

frankly 45:4 
full 24:20 
fully 5:1 33:23 

35:17,19 

function 22:5 
functioning 21:3 
functions 22:4,6 
further 21:18,19 

24:1 28:8 

G

G 3:1
game 5:6
gaps 48:17
general 1:17
12:15 15:8
18:19 31:20
32:2 36:9

generalized 47:1
generally 19:9

34:6

General's 4:3
genius 9:17
getting 49:24

50:17

GINSBURG
5:16 11:17
23:18 33:17
36:21,25 46:5 
46:12 47:3,7

give 18:2,7

25:22 27:10
28:11 32:17
33:8 40:20

given 13:7 23:16 

23:21 27:12
33:18,19 34:1 
34:2 52:5,7
go 5:16 14:11 

20:24 21:9
22:3 23:20 
29:19 42:15 
44:17 45:9,23 
50:9 

goes 23:19,24 

33:24 

going 5:10 9:1 
10:12 14:22 
17:8 18:5,11 
21:9 22:2,8,21 
22:23 23:10 
26:12,16 27:25 
29:23 31:6,9 
31:22,25 35:24 
38:11 42:24 
43:4,20 46:23 
50:11,23 52:4 

good 11:15 
14:13 37:3 
43:17,24 44:1 
45:22 

goodness 39:6 
gotten 11:9 

12:11 43:22 
45:2,5

government
11:17,20,21
12:1,6 13:11 
16:12,17,19
17:9 22:13,14
22:16,21,24
24:15 30:4,6,6
30:12,13 31:21 
32:3,7 37:6 
38:14 41:16,19
41:25 45:17,24

government's

24:17 

grave 7:23 13:17 

14:14 35:15 
great 5:9 19:23 
ground 34:10 
grounded 34:21 
guess 21:15 41:3 

50:3,15
H

hand 29:18
handful 30:3
happen 14:20
happened 11:7
14:19 26:14
28:3

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

inquiry 16:24,25 
instance 7:22,25 
instances 23:25 
integral 24:11 
intended 4:23 
interactive 
25:15,17 

interchangeable 

interest 4:23,24 

41:11 

4:25 

interrupt 21:21 
intuitive 29:3 

involved 7:2 

40:15 

16:25 

involving 7:15 

7:16 

irrebuttal 41:18 
issue 3:25 5:11 

6:6,19 8:6 11:8 
16:25 17:23 
50:25 

issued 48:7 
issues 45:23 

J 

J 1:19 2:5 24:6 
JAMES 1:3 
job 7:18 
joined 7:12 
joint 12:14 

25:14 

Jolla 1:21 
judge 7:17,18,23 

8:4 10:10 
13:25 29:7,8 
31:4,5,8 39:3 
40:9 

hard 10:6 
harm 22:9 52:6 
harmful 8:5,9 
13:19 14:1,2 
29:21 

harmless 7:20 

40:23 
hear 3:3 
hearing 12:8,11 
12:18,22 13:6 
13:7,8 15:17 
15:18,18 20:21 
20:25 26:13 
27:17 28:4,10 
28:14,16,20,21 
28:24 39:22,22 
39:23 51:12 

held 5:17,20,24 

14:9 

help 20:7 34:22 

35:3 37:10 
helpful 31:14 
he'll 9:10 
high 31:19 
hiring 25:18 
history 5:14 
holding 3:15 
Honor 4:16 14:4 

34:13 35:5 
38:13 41:24 
44:11 45:15 
46:19 47:6,11 
47:20 

Honors 43:13 
hopeless 50:15 
hurt 8:10 13:22 
36:3,11 42:10

42:10 43:11 

I 
idea 31:23 
identical 3:20 
identification 

9:12 

identified 9:24 

10:14 17:3 
51:3 

identifies 51:5 
identify 10:22 
identifying 

24:18 
II 41:23 
illustrated 5:14 
illustrates 26:2 

37:15 

illustration 

14:14 

imaginary 42:12 
implication 37:1 
important 16:23 

47:18 50:24 
51:19 

imposed 15:25 
included 11:23 
including 34:14 
34:23,24 35:3 
incomplete 34:2 

34:7 

inconceivable 

37:23 38:7 
incorporated 

6:9 

incorrect 12:14 
increased 12:8 

12:17 15:10,16 
incumbent 17:5 
indicate 40:22 

46:13 

induce 22:23 
inducement 
22:14,17,20 
induces 22:10 
infection 37:25

informal 5:11 
information 8:8 

9:10 15:12 
46:14 

informed 5:2 
25:14 28:6 

inherently 43:25 
initial 15:4 

20:16 27:17 
28:13,20

injury 44:16 

42:2,4 45:14 
47:5 

8:7 9:8,9 11:5 
8:20 9:7,15 
11:7 13:19 
10:5,24 11:17 
14:1,2,3,18 
13:15 14:7,23 
16:9 19:14 
15:3,11,21 
25:21 26:19,21 
16:9 17:13,23 
28:4 29:1,14 
18:1,21 19:4 
30:9 31:3,17 
19:12,16 20:7 
31:24 32:14 
20:20 21:2,20 
36:7,7,16 39:3 
22:2,19 23:12 
39:13 42:24 
23:18 24:3,8 
43:24 45:4,12 
24:22 25:7,17 
46:2,5 50:9,13 
25:25 26:24 
50:14 51:16 
27:5,16,24 
knowing 36:12 
28:9,19,23 
29:6 30:5 31:3  knowledge 36:9 
31:22 32:11,19 
33:12,17 35:6 
35:11,13,20 
36:21,25,25 
37:1,14 38:24 
39:11,17 40:4 
40:17,18,25 
41:15 42:8,20 
42:24 43:3,9 
44:3,8,23 45:3 
45:6 46:5,12
47:3,7,12,16 
47:21,23 48:2 
48:16,23 49:4 
49:12,13,15,18
49:22 50:3,22 
51:7,23 52:2 
52:10 
K

L
La 1:21 
lack 13:12 51:18 
language 3:19 
3:22 6:9 7:7 
8:15,19 18:14 
18:14 44:2
large 17:11 
latest 30:17
latitude 18:10
law 9:17 13:13 

22:21 28:14 
36:7,11 39:18 
40:24 

Kotteakos 35:15 

knowledgeable 

knows 11:7 

9:16 

keep 16:23 
KENNEDY 

17:13,23 18:1 
27:16,24 28:9 
28:19,23 40:17 
47:12,16 49:13 
kind 3:25 5:4,11 

judge's 13:21 
judicial 6:7 
18:15,17 
jury 7:15 
21:16 23:8 
Justice 1:17 3:3  kinds 18:15 
knew 13:18 
27:25 28:2 

3:9 4:2,13 5:3 
5:16 6:3,13 
7:11,16 8:18 

know 5:5 7:6 8:3 

16:5 17:24 
23:13 29:22
31:11 39:1
42:6 48:13
laws 48:11 
lawyer 25:19
48:24 49:2,7
49:11,14,20
50:1,6,10
51:24,25,25
lawyers 19:19

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

long 33:22 
longer 19:21 
look 11:3,3,8 
14:7 16:10 
29:11 31:4,5 
31:24 39:20 
45:17 46:1,21 

looking 6:8 
11:24 46:6 
lose 9:10,19 
35:25 37:2 
43:1 

loses 39:24 

45:19 

losing 21:25 
loss 12:8,22 

28:21,24 30:2 
30:10 31:14 
32:1,15,23 
34:3 35:7 

9:3,12 11:7 
12:5 17:23 
21:21 23:12 
38:20 39:16 
40:14 41:9 
42:9,14 45:5 
51:12,24 
means 21:8 
meant 19:2 

26:13,14 37:20  mechanical 
41:22 45:11 
lost 5:8 20:11 
28:3 49:24 
50:7 

12:23 

lay 16:11 31:1 

30:24 

44:19 

layperson 16:17 

16:21 31:24 

leave 33:20 
left 29:2 
legal 16:10 

36:17 38:16 
43:12 50:16 
legally 8:15,17 

8:23 

Legion 20:2 
letter 12:7,13 

15:5 33:4 37:8 
37:8,9 

letters 33:7,10 
let's 21:4 24:24 

39:20,21,23 
42:9 43:7,14 
43:18,21 

level 19:22,24 
19:25 27:1,6 
32:12,17 34:11 
36:22 37:3,5 
46:6,6,17,17 

levels 32:16 
likelihood 31:19 
limit 19:18 
line 4:12 40:18 

41:9 

Lippman 1:21 
2:7 35:8,9,11 
36:19,24 37:4 
38:12 39:9,15 
39:20 40:13 
41:3,24 42:19 
42:21 43:2,6 
43:12 44:7,10 
45:1,4,15 
46:11,18 47:5 
47:9,15,18,22 
litigation 6:17 

6:18 21:10 
22:3 49:23 
little 19:20 

44:10 

lot 8:8 11:14 
23:1 36:5 
45:24 46:3 

M 

mail 28:4 50:7 
major 33:20 
majority 19:23 
making 37:10 
man 13:22 30:8 
map 33:5 
MARK 1:21 2:7 

35:9 

Mars 30:8 
material 16:7 
35:24 41:5 
51:21 

matter 1:12 5:7 

5:21 13:13 
16:4 30:2 42:6 
45:18 52:13 

matters 36:8,14 
Meade 1:19 2:5 
24:5,6,8 25:7 
26:18 27:3,7 
27:18 28:6,15 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

51:15 52:1,4 
Miller's 32:12 
mind 13:21 

Ninth 4:11 
nisi 19:4 
nonpersuasion 

16:24 50:11 
mean 5:4 6:5,14  minimal 34:19 

minute 44:5 
minutes 47:24 
misidentified 

15:7 

missing 13:5 

37:17 

mistake 16:17 
mixed 8:14 
moment 50:5,18 
moments 20:9 
measure 33:23  Monday 1:10 
money 21:25 

33:16 49:16 

medical 11:1 
25:6 26:13 
27:18 28:16 
38:4 43:15 
44:13,15 
meet 15:19 

34:19 

mental 30:20 
meritorious 

34:15,24 35:4 
52:8 

met 6:25 
Miller 1:16 2:3 
2:10 3:6,7,9 
4:5,16 5:9,23 
6:6 7:4 8:18,24 
9:11,21 10:13 
11:11 12:5 
14:4,13 15:1,4 
15:14,24 16:22 
17:25 18:13 
19:1,6,14,21 
20:7,15,21 
21:15,22 22:16 
22:25 23:15,23 
24:4 47:23,25 
48:2,19,25 
49:8,16,21 
50:2,21,24 

42:18,21 

morning 3:4 
Morton 34:16 

N

N 2:1,1 3:1 
nature 23:5
necessarily

28:15 32:17,25
necessary 37:11

37:13

need 19:19
24:18 25:1
29:9 38:15
46:22 48:17
needed 15:6,6

15:10,13 20:12 
25:6 26:10
29:1,4,13 42:2 

needs 7:2,5

31:18 32:24
33:3 34:18,20
43:15

negative 16:6
neither 6:15

29:3

never 5:17,20

28:2 29:23,24
new 1:19 20:20 

20:22

non-adversarial 

6:21 

5:12 

20:1 

16:6 

non-attorney 

non-existence 

normally 9:16 
North 20:4 
notice 3:17,25 

4:19 5:4,13 8:4 
8:6 9:8,18 
11:10,24 12:7 
12:13,25 13:24 
16:13,15 20:11 
22:7 23:3,4,8 
24:11,12 25:9 
25:19,23 26:10 
26:20,22 27:1 
27:8,10,12,20 
27:22 28:3,12
28:18 29:5,15
30:12 31:16 
32:5,16,18
33:2,3,7,9,10
33:15,17,19,21
33:22,25 34:1 
34:4,7,7,8,9,11 
35:18,19,23,25
36:1,4,23 37:3 
38:2 40:5,21
42:5 43:22 
46:8,12,16
48:25 49:5,6
49:13,14,17,19 
50:18 51:12,18

notices 28:8 

37:5 

notified 24:20 
notion 19:18 
novo 17:24 
20:18 21:1 
27:5 

number 12:24 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

23:16 

parties 9:2 
partly 28:17 
party 3:23 22:6 

22:10,11 
passed 6:4 

36:3 37:17 
44:4 48:15,23 
49:4,15,18,25 
50:10,24 51:11 

points 24:10 
48:3 51:8 

presenting 7:8 
presume 3:15 
presumption 

10:8 32:2 
33:13 41:18 
presumptions

oral 1:12 2:2 3:7  passing 34:13,22  policy 35:1 44:1 

31:15 

portion 46:13,15  pretty 8:9 
posed 5:17 
prevented 10:2 
position 26:4,5,8  prevents 35:19 
primary 22:11 
principal 4:5 

41:15 50:19 
51:13 

17:12 30:4 
32:9 

5:12 

opportunity 

23:21 

37:21 

opposed 6:23 
optometrists 

N.Y 1:19 
O 
O 2:1 3:1 
obligation 9:4 
10:19 11:18 
12:2 22:7,11 
22:13,15,17 
obligations 23:3  ordinary 8:25 
observations 
organizations 
35:14 

24:6 35:9 

pay 22:8 

15:6 

order 9:11,11,22  payment 19:7 
Peake 1:3 3:4 
pending 23:11 
people 7:8 16:11 

20:2,3 

original 33:16 
49:14,16,19 
ought 10:1,3 

18:22 19:19 
31:1 45:10 
percent 19:25 
30:17,19,21 
21:11,13 22:11  perfect 35:18 

possession 47:14 
possibility 25:4 

26:16 

possible 30:7 
possibly 17:11 
post-agency 

post-service 

41:8 

37:25 

30:21 

post-traumatic 

practice 4:6 

5:25 6:8 20:8 
38:19 

perfectly 48:17 
person 21:4 50:4 

50:6,8,15,17 

persuasion 

10:12 

persuasive 51:4 
pertains 47:14 
petition 46:7 
petitioner 1:5,18 

27:21 

Petitioner's 

2:4,11 3:8 5:20  precisely 32:14 
prejudice 3:16 
48:1 
4:9 5:8 6:15 
9:5,6 13:12 
15:23 21:12,17 
21:17 24:13 
27:14 30:14 
31:19,23 32:6 
32:10 41:16,18 
44:24 45:7 

phrase 45:7 
piece 10:2,4 
21:6 50:6 
51:20 

place 3:22 4:7 
6:1 25:12,23 

outcome 4:25 
10:20 11:14 
outside 39:21 

45:23 

overruling 

34:16 

owe 17:15,19 
O'Neal 7:6,11 
7:14 35:14 

P

P 3:1 
page 2:2 12:13 

Pandora's 38:19 
panel 10:11 
paper 50:6 
paradigmatic 

51:1 
placed 6:10 
paragraph 14:8  places 5:19 
39:2 
plaintiff 10:14 
part 37:8,9 46:8  please 3:10 24:9 
46:12 
participate 

point 8:24 10:1 

35:12 

particular 4:10 
4:24,24 11:12 
28:1 33:4,5 
particularly 

13:4,7 17:7 
25:9 26:25 
27:9 28:12,13 
30:13 32:13 
33:12 34:12 

prejudicial 3:12 

3:19,20,24 
5:10 15:12,15 
16:25 18:8,20 
40:21 50:25 
prepared 11:2 
present 20:22 
23:21 39:4 
51:17,19 

presented 9:2 

23:6 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

15:14 

prior 11:2 16:5 
priority 52:7 
prius 19:5 
private 37:10,21
probability

11:13 

probably 8:5 
problem 13:17 
23:13,15 29:7 
29:14 35:16 
41:14 

Procedure 6:4 
proceed 14:11 

proceeding 17:2 

33:15 

19:5,7

proceedings

14:16 16:24 
21:18 49:11 
process 21:10 

25:11,15,17,21
25:21,24 26:7 
26:19 29:12,12
29:13 32:4,5
33:15 36:2 

processed 28:1 
produce 6:24 

8:6,8 9:9,18,19 
11:19 28:14 
36:5,6,8,9
42:15,17,25
43:4 

produced 13:2 

17:11 

obtain 13:14 
obviously 31:5 
occur 40:8 
October 33:6 
offer 38:15 
offered 14:16 
offhand 47:11 
office 6:22 12:20 
13:1 19:10,24 
20:16,19 24:1 
24:25 25:1,4 
26:11 48:5,7 
49:1 

officer 20:23 
office's 48:13 
official 5:13 

20:19 

28:23 29:17 
31:9 34:4 
39:20 42:22 

once 16:25 

19:10 26:20,25 
48:25 

ones 14:2 
opens 38:19 
ophthalmologist 

41:20 

37:21 

45:22 

opinion 42:1 

opportunities 

ophthalmolog... 

25:20 

Oh 21:5 49:16 
okay 13:19 21:2  paid 18:24 

43:19 46:7 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

production 6:20  questions 43:23 
professor's 

rebutting 32:9 
quite 33:3 35:21  recall 47:10,11 

remands 17:12 

51:17 

29:22 31:12 
proffer 38:16 

40:6 43:10,17 
proffers 38:19 

40:1 41:8 43:7 
43:14 

prohibited 

25:18 

prong 45:16,21 
proof 8:14 
proper 24:23 

proposition 4:15 

26:22 

38:15 

protect 4:23 
prove 26:10 

30:8 45:18,24 
provide 24:12 

29:1 38:10 
47:13 

provided 32:25 

37:20 46:14 
48:4 

providing 3:17 

37:21 

proving 16:6 
provision 3:21 
psychological 

30:20 

PTSD 30:23 
public 5:1 
put 10:2,4 30:3 
31:18 35:24 

puts 22:6 
Q 

45:4 

R

R 1:21 2:7 3:1 

35:9

raised 33:13
rare 7:22,25 8:9 

36:10

rarely 40:8
rating 12:8,17

12:25 15:10,16

rationale 35:1
reach 45:23
reached 17:1

reaches 19:10

51:3

27:12

read 8:1 14:8 
reads 50:12
real 13:20 29:14 

31:13

realize 21:7
really 4:22 8:3 

8:21 13:25
14:19 19:13
25:22 35:22,25
41:14 44:14
45:20 46:1
50:13 51:1
reason 4:5,21

5:9 7:12 8:18 
12:21 15:14
18:18 31:14
37:12 39:24
44:1 

reasonable 

11:13 37:10 
42:4 45:12,13 

question 5:17 
10:6,16 11:6 
18:20,22 20:13  reasons 3:14 
25:18 27:19 
31:17 32:20 
34:3,4 37:1 
48:4 49:15 
questioning 
40:19 41:10 

4:22 25:7 27:3 
30:4 32:24,25 
49:25 50:8 

rebut 27:13 32:6 
REBUTTAL 

2:9 47:25 

23:10 52:6 
receive 30:22,22  remember 

30:25 49:1,9 
received 15:13 
15:16 24:20 
30:11 32:5 

receiving 34:19 
reconcile 41:4 
record 11:12 

representative 

19:17 

20:1 

represented 

18:23 19:2,25 
20:4 

reproduced 

13:9 

28:25 39:23,25 
47:13 

13:16 26:3,21 
35:17,19 45:23  request 39:23 
requests 28:22 

records 37:11 
record's 13:17 
referring 49:8 
regardless 44:24  required 23:8 
regional 6:22 
25:9,20 27:10 
33:11,21 37:6 
12:20 13:1 
49:17 
19:10,24 20:16 
20:19 23:20 
24:1,25 25:1,4 
26:11 48:5,7 
48:12 49:1 

requirement 
27:11 32:24 
33:23 34:25 
requirements 
12:15 23:3 
27:9 33:1,5 
48:9 

regs 47:1 
regulation 13:2 

48:8 

regulations 

48:11 

rejected 34:21 

35:1 

requires 49:19 
requiring 16:20 
reserve 24:2 
resolution 20:24 

24:24 

resolved 10:7 
resources 35:2 

relative 50:19 
relatively 50:11 
relaxed 19:8 
relevant 5:2 6:8 
respect 10:16 
remainder 24:2 
remaining 47:24 
14:4 39:15 
remand 7:3 9:22  Respondent

52:8 

14:20,20 20:12 
20:14,17 21:18 
24:24 25:3 
26:11 33:14 
38:8,10 42:22 
42:25 45:25 
51:22,22 

1:20,22 2:6,8 
24:7 35:10 

response 32:12 
responses 16:23 
responsibility
11:21 21:7 

restrictions 19:7 

remanded 23:19  result 8:15 

23:23 25:11 
45:9 

14:21 17:11 
21:19 36:17 

results 13:9 
retain 52:1 
review 6:7 10:8 
18:2,15,17,20
20:18,22 21:1 
32:13,16,17

reviewing 3:13 
right 4:15 7:15 
11:9 20:13,17
20:18 22:25 
27:6 29:3 
32:21 36:2 
39:22,25 47:15 

risk 6:20 
ROBERTS 3:3 
4:13 5:3 10:5 
10:24 16:9 
24:3 31:22 
32:11,19 35:6 
44:3,8,23 45:3 
45:6 47:21,23
48:16 51:23 
52:2,10

rolling 5:5 
room 45:24 
rule 3:12 4:18 
5:22 14:6,8
15:25 17:7 
18:8,11,17,23
22:4 24:17 
31:20 40:21 

rulemaking

4:20,25

rules 40:23 

S
S 2:1 3:1 
Sanders 1:7,22
2:8 3:5 35:10 
41:21

saying 8:12 9:16 

9:22 10:19
15:11 16:13,15
29:7 32:21
39:1 40:1
51:24

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

says 7:11,13,15 
7:16 8:3 10:11 
18:6 21:4,5 
22:11 26:9 
36:17 37:9 
38:6 40:18 
46:20,22 50:7 
50:8,13 

SCALIA 4:2 
26:24 27:5 
scenario 30:8 
schedule 15:19 

39:24 

scheduled 28:17 
scheme 25:13 
second 3:25 

24:14 25:11 
30:15 36:12 
37:5 42:3 46:6 
46:9,17,23 
47:19 48:15 
51:9 

Secretary 1:3 

46:13,15 47:13 

section 3:18 

4:20,23 6:10 
23:4 

see 8:22 35:21 

39:5 41:7 
50:22 

seeing 43:19 
sees 18:4 
Seine 4:12 
Senate 4:10 
send 23:25 

26:15 

senior 20:18 
sense 8:2,11,23 
17:17 21:17 
25:3 26:15 
30:3,6,9 31:19 
32:2 36:17 
37:14 38:3,8,9 
43:12 

sensible 8:16 
sent 12:7,13 

15:5 27:20,22 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

28:8,18 

sentences 39:6 
series 13:7 
serious 52:6 
served 31:1 
service 12:16 
15:8 16:14 
20:1 26:15 
38:1 44:20,22 
service-conne... 

12:9 

service-related 

37:20 38:5 
set 36:15,16 

41:25 
sets 29:2 
severe 12:10,23 

16:16 

severely 12:12 
shapes 5:18 
show 6:25 11:13 

28:25 31:13 
50:4 

sizes 5:18 
skipped 33:18 
Solicitor 1:16 
soon 12:19 
sophisticated 
50:11 51:13 

sorry 21:20 
sort 10:9 14:14 

20:1 21:11 
38:25 40:14 
sounds 38:25 
SOUTER 20:7 

20:20 21:2 
22:2,19 23:12 
48:23 49:4,12 
49:18,22 50:3 
50:22 51:7 

Souter's 49:15 
speak 9:3 
specific 41:4 

statement 15:21 
32:24,25 48:7 
49:2,9,10,24 
51:19 

statements 
44:19,19 

States 1:1,13 

statistics 19:14 

20:2 

30:17 

statute 3:19 6:6 

43:16 

submitted 11:6 
41:13 43:23,24 
52:11,13 

submitting 41:8 
substantiate 

substantiation 

11:19 

23:22 

subtle 22:5 
sufficient 10:22 

11:13 15:22 
44:21 

12:3 33:2 
34:13,22 40:17 
41:2,4,7 44:2 
46:6,16 47:8 
47:19 49:17,19  suggest 4:18 

sufficiently 
12:10,23 

statutes 38:21 

43:7 

39:9 

statutory 22:15 

22:17 23:2 
25:13 32:23 
33:23 

suggested 7:6 

18:16 

suggesting 

14:24 

summarize 43:4 
support 4:14,18 

37:11 

supporting 25:2 
supports 26:4,5 
suppose 14:7 

22:23,25 23:20 
42:9 

supposed 8:8 

9:9 11:23 
13:18 28:16 
36:8 

Supreme 1:1,13 
sure 26:25 44:10 

47:20 

suspect 34:9 
symptomology 

44:17 

symptoms 44:20 
system 5:12 
12:21 20:8 
21:3 24:11 
39:18 52:6 

T

T 2:1,1

12:17 13:12 
14:12 16:14,19  specifically 12:4  STEVENS 6:3 
32:3 34:20 
14:23 15:3,11 
15:21 18:21 
37:19,19 38:4 
41:16,19,19,25  specify 46:9 
19:4,12,16 
42:1 

12:16 15:9 
34:25 

speculate 43:18  Stevens's 25:17 
stop 38:20 39:7 
speculative 

showing 3:24 

4:8 6:14 7:2,5 
10:19 13:12 
15:23 16:3 
17:10 26:13 
31:23 

shows 33:9 38:5 
side 7:19 10:11 
significance 
22:22 49:6 

Simmons 1:20 
2:6 20:4,10 
21:5 24:7 
33:18 

Simmons's 5:15 

11:15 12:6 
simply 11:4 

12:14 50:12 
single 41:20 
situation 26:1,3 

24:18,22 44:1 

39:9,11 

47:17 

stops 39:1,8 
straightforward 

spend 44:5 
spent 46:2,3 
square 33:24 
strange 19:20 
stage 16:24 17:5 
stress 30:21 
19:8 21:9 22:3 
49:10,23 50:18  strikes 31:11 
strives 23:2 
strong 22:17,19 
stronger 22:20 

stamp 32:21 
standard 6:25 

10:8 18:20 
35:15 

standards 35:16 
start 18:5 32:13 

32:16 

started 43:5 

44:3 

starts 5:7 
state 11:11 
14:16 20:5 

26:8 

strongly 18:16 
struck 19:19 
stuff 13:24 
subdivision 

47:11 

submissions 7:9 
submit 11:5 

15:6 41:5 42:3 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

try 44:18 45:5 
trying 8:22,24 
16:11,18 28:9 
30:25 35:21 
49:5 

v 1:6 3:4 34:17 
VA 3:16 5:11 
6:23 12:7,21 
13:8 15:18 
16:3,5 18:17 
turns 11:8 
20:5 21:13 
Twelve 30:21 
23:1,9,17 
two 4:22 5:5 
25:13 29:24 
37:12,24 39:24 
16:22 17:13 
25:7 29:2 
44:14 52:5 
37:20,24 38:12  vague 23:4 
51:8,10,10,11 

various 32:15 
Vasquez-Flores 

type 11:6 
typical 19:13 

27:15 33:2 
VA's 24:12 

34:19 

VCAA 39:21 
veteran 6:23 8:4 

threshold 34:19 

understood 3:22 

tables 13:3 
tailored 23:5 
take 3:12 5:14 

12:6 17:24 
18:8 32:20 
39:21 

taken 47:3 
talk 7:14 
talking 5:21 7:5 

7:24 8:16 
10:10 13:20 
14:10 20:15 
22:20 42:22 
46:16 50:9,13 
50:14 51:1,9 
51:10 

teams 5:6,6 
technical 34:10 

40:8 

tell 5:6 8:15 10:3 
11:18,24 18:12

30:6 31:4 40:9 
42:15 46:21 
47:7 

telling 13:23 
tells 9:18 29:16 
45:17 47:12 

ten 18:24 39:19 
ten-dollar 19:18 
term 40:25 
terminology 

6:16,19 

terms 14:12 
16:11 38:16 
45:7 48:10 

test 15:18 
testing 11:2 
tests 11:1 
Thank 24:3 35:5 
35:6,11 47:21 
47:22 48:2 
52:10 

theoretical 

29:22 

theory 9:5,7,10 

9:20 

thing 16:13 

38:25 42:11 
43:13 45:12 

things 40:8 
think 5:5 7:14 

7:19 10:13 
11:15 14:5,13 
18:9,13,18 
19:24 20:10 
23:1 26:1 32:1 
34:11 36:2,3 
36:10,13,19 
37:15 39:16 
40:16 48:16 
50:14,19,21 

thinks 8:7 
third 36:12 37:5 
45:16,20 46:9 
46:24 47:19 

thought 8:1 18:5 

42:16 47:3 

three 24:10 36:8 
39:6 40:7 42:5 
45:10 48:3 

three-quarters 

19:24 

34:25 

time 6:8 9:23 
11:10 18:4 
23:6 24:2 
27:12,25 28:1 
28:1 41:6 
44:20 45:11 
46:3 49:9 
times 32:9 
toes 22:24 
told 12:21 14:12 

20:10 27:2 
29:13 31:7,7 
51:14 

tough 38:24 
treat 33:22 
treating 43:19 

43:22 

trigger 34:8 
troubling 37:16 
true 29:16 

31:15 
U

Uh-hmm 45:3
unclear 27:7

44:10 

understand 6:17 
21:5 31:6 42:8 
50:10,12 51:16 
understanding 

51:18 

4:3,6 

26:19 

unfold 25:24 

unfortunately 

uniform 4:6

8:13 

5:24 

Union 4:12 
unique 18:17 
United 1:1,13 
unnecessary 

52:6 

unrepresented 

30:16,18 

upheld 19:18 
use 6:16 27:13 

35:2 

usually 10:5 

28:19 

V 

8:10 9:16 
11:18,19,25

23:20 24:13,15
24:16,17,19
25:1,5,9,14,14 
25:18,20,22 
26:9,12,16,20 
26:22 27:8 
28:22,25 29:1 
29:11,16 30:11 
31:17,21 32:4 
32:18 33:11,15
33:24 34:18,20 
35:23 36:11,22 
39:21 44:15 
45:17,19 51:2 
51:8,12,13,14 

3:11,13,15,18
4:10 6:7 8:2,12 
8:25 9:4,13,23 
13:10,23 14:11 
17:1,14,20 
18:3,19 19:3,8 
23:7,24 25:8 
26:6,23 27:13 
27:14 30:15,17 
30:18,19 31:1 
32:10 33:2,8 

veterans 1:4 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

34:4,10,14,17 
34:23 35:1,3 
36:15 39:12,16 
39:17 40:19,20 
42:16 43:8 
44:12 45:13 
48:6 51:3,4,16 
veteran's 26:4,8 

29:10 36:2,7 

view 16:10 
vision 26:13,14 
37:19 41:21 
45:11 

volume 23:16 

52:5 

vulnerable 

30:16 

W
walk 29:24
walked 29:11,12
walking 29:12
want 10:4 18:16 

33:7,8 35:2 
36:10 39:4 
40:7 43:10

wanted 34:14 
wants 9:4 33:10 

34:22 35:2
War 41:23
Washington 1:9 

1:17

wasn't 15:21 
16:1,15 23:9 
30:8 31:7 
44:23 48:22

way 10:12 13:13 

13:16,17,24
15:15 16:3 
20:9 24:25
25:21 26:7 
30:14 33:20
39:21 43:6 
44:11 45:15
50:25 51:4 
weak 37:22
weight 18:2

words 6:22 11:4  35 2:8 

3 

3 2:4 
3.159 47:1,9,10 

38 47:10 48:8 

went 29:19 33:6 

35:22 

weren't 45:8 
West 34:17 
we're 10:12 
14:10 43:5 

whatsoever 9:8 
win 31:9 
wins 42:18 
wishes 42:9 
WITNESS 

17:21 

woman 13:22 
WOODROW 

1:7 

41:7 42:4 
work 25:22 

39:18 40:15 
worked 32:4 

44:4 

works 20:8 
World 41:22 
worry 22:5 
worse 12:11,12 

12:18 13:6 
15:17 

worthwhile 
45:25,25 

wouldn't 21:25 

33:25 42:21 
48:20 

wrong 27:22 
28:8 29:17 
32:11 35:23 
39:16 40:11 

X 

x 1:2,8 

Y 
year 33:6 
years 19:17 
yields 12:25 
York 1:19 
0 

07-1209 1:6 3:4 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

1 

10:04 1:14 3:2 
11:03 52:12 
19.29 48:8 
1988 3:22 4:7 

6:7,9,11
2 

2000 44:14 
2008 1:10 32:7 
24 2:6 30:19 

4 
43 12:13 
47 2:11 
49 43:19 
5 
5103 23:4 
553 4:20,23 

6 
64 30:17 
7 
70a 27:20 
7261 3:18 6:10 

18:6 

8 

8 1:10 

9 
98 19:25 
98a 46:7 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

