Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
GARY BRADFORD CONE, 
:
             
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 07-1114 
                       
RICKY BELL, WARDEN. 
: 
             
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Tuesday, December 9, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 11:08 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf

 of the Petitioner. 

JENNIFER L. SMITH, ESQ., Associate Deputy Attorney

 General, Nashville, Tenn.; on behalf of the
 Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


JENNIFER L. SMITH, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondents 

                   

28


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                   

54


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (11:08 a.m.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument 

next in Case 07-1114, Cone v. Bell.

 Mr. Goldstein.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Thank you, Mr. Chief 

Justice, and may it please the Court:

 As this case comes to the Court, two things 

I think are uncontested.  The first is that at this 
trial, the prosecution suppressed all of the evidence in 
its files that went to the single most important 
contested issue of the case, and that's whether the 
defendant was a drug addict and committed the crimes in 
an amphetamine psychosis.

 And the second is that as soon as the 

Petitioner found out about the suppression, he presented 
his Brady claim to the State courts.  In this --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  There is also a 
third thing that's uncontested, which is there is no 
Brady claim on the merits.  That's not at all included 
in your question presented.  The district court and the 
court of appeals concluded that there was no Brady 
violation on the merits.  I don't know what would happen 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

if we sent this case back.  They would conclude it 
again.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, Mr. Chief Justice, 
there are a couple issues that you've raised.  Can I 
first address the question of whether it's encompassed 
within the question presented on the merits, because the 
question is, well, is this all just an academic exercise 
because the procedural default holding wouldn't change 
the ultimate outcome in the case?

 The answer is that it is, we think, fairly 

encompassed within the question presented, and I can 
explain why, including with respect to the text of the 
question presented.

 The court of appeals in this case disavowed 
deciding the merits of the Brady claim.  And let me take 
you to the petition appendix, and that is at page 22a 
and again at 24a.  So I'm just trying to walk you 
through what the court of appeals said at the very top 
of 22a:  "We, therefore, will not disturb our decision 
that Cone's Brady claims are procedurally defaulted and 
not before this court."

 And then on 24a, at the bottom of the first 
full paragraph, the last sentence:  "We again find that 
Cone's claims are procedurally defaulted and we reject 
Cone's request to reconsider his Brady claims." 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but don't stop 

there.  On page 25a, they've been talking about those 
federalism issues.  They say:  "We need not be delayed 
by these interesting questions of federalism, however, 
because in all events the documents discussed in the 
dissenting opinion that were allegedly withheld are not 
Brady material."

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.  I 

was not going to stop, and I was going to just point out 
the dilemma that I faced when I wrote the cert petition.
 So, on the one hand, they disavowed deciding 
it, and then quite clearly there are some -- there are a 
couple paragraphs there, you've start -- you've stated 
one, the next paragraph says the same thing -- talking 
about the merits of the Brady claim.  So here's the 
dilemma that I faced in writing the cert petition.  They 
say they're not deciding the Brady claim, but then they 
talk quite clearly about it.  So I expressed --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but don't --

you've resolved your dilemma by not raising anything at 
all about the merits in the question presented?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Mr. Chief Justice, I 

disagree, and let me explain why.  If you go to the cert 
petition, of course, which you have in front of you, 
starting on page 26 --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, let's start on 

page Roman xi, where the questions presented are. 
There's nothing in there about the merits of the Brady 
claim.  It's all about the procedural objections that 
you have.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and I --

the document, of course -- let's -- let's talk about the 
text of the question presented, and then I'll give my 
explanation.  So, the question presented it says is 
"Whether Petitioner is entitled to Federal habeas review 
of his claim that the State suppressed material evidence 
in violation of Brady v. Maryland?"  We thought --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I -- I guess what I 

would say is you've got - habeas review of that claim 
because the district court decided it on the merits and 
the court of appeals decided it on the merits.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I 
have explained why it is, and if I can then take you to 
the rest of the body of the cert petition.  The doctrine 
that I'm going to rely on is the question -- the issue 
is, is it fairly encompassed within the question 
presented?  So the dilemma I have described to you is 
the one I faced.  The court of appeals said it wasn't 
deciding the Brady claim, then it talked about it.

 Then -- so, in the body of the cert 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

petition, which you all looked to in my experience in 
determining what's fairly encompassed, there are two 
headings for the reasons for granting the writ.  The one 
is the procedural one.  Then starting on page 26, we 
present the merits question of the merits of the Brady 
claim.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.  It seems to 

me you either did not raise the question or you did.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  If you did not, then 
we don't address the procedural issues that you raised. 
If you did, then also we have to resolve the question on 
the merits, a very fact-specific Brady claim that we 
would not normally take without reaching those 
procedural issues.  So, I don't see why the procedural 
issues are before us.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, Mr. Chief Justice, can 

I -- can I answer the -- finish answering my question 
about the body of the cert petition and then come to 
this?  I'm glad to do it in whichever order.  I do have 
a couple of important points to make on your very 
understandable question about what's fairly encompassed 
within the question presented.

 The particular place that I want to point 

the Court to, so starting on 26, we lay out our argument 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

about the merits, and then footnote 6 explains quite 
clearly to the Court -- the Court sometimes has a 
concern that parties are smuggling questions into the 
case in front of it, and that's clearly what did not 
happen here.  We explain our dilemma about the Sixth 
Circuit saying it wasn't deciding the merits, and then 
footnote 6, because the panel -- this is on page --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Where am I going to find 

footnote 6?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Footnote 6 at page 30 of the 

cert petition, sir.

 "Because the panel disavowed deciding the 

merits of Petitioner's Brady claim in the language that 
I quoted you to, and discussed the question only in 
dictum, Petitioner's counsel have concluded that it 
would not be permissible to state that issue as a 
distinct question presented."

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Our -- our cases 
clearly hold that when you have alternate holdings, 
neither one is dicta.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Sir, the -- but it was 

disavowing it, I think, as an alternate holding.  The 
court of appeals opinion is not clear.  It disclaims the 
power even to decide the Brady claim.

 And if I can just finish the footnote, it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

really is only two sentences long:  "This Court could, 
of course, reach the issue either by directing the 
parties to brief it or by recognizing that it is fairly 
encompassed within the question as described in the 
petition."

 Then the brief in opposition to cert is only 

about the merits of the claim, and our reply brief on 
cert, if you go to page 4 of the cert reply brief, then 
clearly identifies this question for the Court again.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that's fair 
for the Respondents to say, look, there's no reason to 
take this procedural -- complicated procedural issue, 
because we win on the merits.  And the court, as their 
view articulates, the court decided that question.
 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, I agree it was 

perfectly fair for them.  But the question that I'm 
trying to address, and I apologize if I've misunderstood 
the question, is did we sufficiently identify for you 
all in the question that we presented the Court what the 
issues were, and so that you were agreeing to decide the 
procedural question, the merits question, and --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  How -- how long has this 
case been going on?  When -- when was -- when was the 
crime?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  In 1980, August of 1980. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  The crime was committed in 

1980, 28 years ago.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And when was the -- when 

was the conviction and the sentence of death pronounced?
 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Very soon thereafter, within 
a couple of years.  This -- let me answer that and make 
sure that I've resolved --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  And you want to go back 

down again, for another --

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I'm sorry?
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  How old is this -- is this 

defendant?

now.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  He's around 50 years old 

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And when -- when did the 

court indicate in -- in Tennessee that you had access to 
the file?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes.  In the Woodall case, 

12 years after the crime, Justice Scalia, so all the 
evidence was suppressed.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Oh, I thought that was 

2000 -- when was that?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  In 1992.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  1992. 

10

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  In 1992 he was granted 

access to the files.  He immediately stated, right away 
- it's uncontested -- his Brady claim.  And then Justice 
Scalia, the case went on --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And the Brady claim has 

been pending in the Federal courts but just not decided 
since about 2001?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes, sir.  So there's no 

question about timeliness.  Justice Scalia, your 
frustration about how long in this case is perfectly 
understandable, how long they take.  But let me just be 
clear that this --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it was -- it was 

decided.  It was decided -- wasn't it decided the first 
time around?  I mean, the Chief Justice calls your 
attention to page 25a.  The reason the court said 
they're not Brady material -- we said it before, we said 
it the last time the case was before the court.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, I took Justice 

Kennedy's question to be that this has been in the case 
all along and hasn't been finally resolved, there isn't 
a final judgment.  You're quite right that, as the Chief 
Justice pointed out, there is language in the court of 
appeals' very first opinion in the case.  There is 
unfortunately only one sentence, but to be fair there is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

a sentence in the first opinion saying that it's not --
that Brady evidence is not material.

 But I -- I did want to come back to why this 

has been in the courts for so long.  When he presented 
it immediately, Justice Kennedy, to the State courts, 
the State told the State courts that it had been 
previously determined.  It -- it no longer defends that. 
It just wasn't true.  And that caused the whole thing to 
go off the rails, because we have been trying ever since 
the day that we got access to the materials to get one 
full adjudication of the claim.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I guess it's -- my 

questions and the questions and the points --

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- that was raised 

about the time are related, because one reason these 
things drag on interminably is that you are -- exactly 
why you're raising this issue here, it's a procedural 
nicety or a procedural difficulty that arose some time 
ago in the State courts.  But since then the Federal 
courts, both the district court and the court of appeals 
have addressed it, and -- and that that's a good 
jurisprudential approach to say, particularly in a 
complicated case like this that is 26 years old, here's 
our answer on this, but so that we don't have to go 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

through this again, if we're reversed on that, here's 
our -- our alternative holding; and they said right 
after the sentence I quoted, we said this before, and we 
now say it again:  This is not Brady material.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Right.  So, Mr. Chief 

Justice, it seems to me, though you and I might disagree 
on what's fairly encompassed, we might have one piece of 
common ground, and that is it's time to bring this all 
to a close; that there really isn't a big benefit to 
having Cone 4 and 5, and that's actually what we have 
asked the Court to do.  Now we are not --

JUSTICE ALITO:  I thought what you asked us 
to do was to reverse on the procedural default issue and 
remand the case.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  We -- we do do that.  We 

also say, however, that if the Court believes that the 
Sixth Circuit has reached the merits, then this Court 
should address what are the undefended -- the -- what 
the Sixth -- the State does not contest are legal errors 
in its assessment of the merits.  The Kyles --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That would -- that 

would then depend on us agreeing to review a very 
fact-bound, necessarily fact-bound, Brady question when 
the questions presented focused on a procedural issue.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, first of all, Mr. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Chief Justice, there -- we have two different sets of 
errors that we think exist with respect to the Brady 
claim.  I'm not avoiding the question of whether it's 
encompassed, and I'll come back to it.  But to your 
first point, we do identify what we think are clear 
legal mistakes by the lower courts in -- whether it's a 
holding or dictum, not to get into -- enter into that 
debate, we explain that the Sixth Circuit avowedly split 
the evidence into sort of four different silos or 
categories, and we think inconsistently with Kyles v 
Whitley, and we think the lower courts were wrong not to 
hold an evidentiary hearing.

 Now, those aren't fact-bound points; those 

are questions of law, so we believe that it would be 
perfectly appropriate for this Court to decide the 
procedural question.  The procedural holding of the 
Sixth Circuit is not defended here, the idea that 
previous determination amounts to a procedural default. 
And then on the question of the merits, the Court could 
decide those two limited legal questions and leave it to 
the lower courts to decide the more fact-bound 
questions.

 But we do think that the Court -- it is 

actually quite sensible for this Court to not justify 
the procedural question, given that it's a very weak --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

call it holding, call it dictum -- the Sixth Circuit has 
sent strong signals about what it views regarding the 
merits of the Brady claim.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  That seems to me to be 

directly contrary to what you say in your brief.  The 
last sentence of your brief:  "This case can accordingly 
be properly resolved more narrowly by remanding the case 
to the district court for consideration of the merits of 
the Brady claim in the first instance."

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes, sir, that -- that is 
something that the Court can do.  We explained in the 
preceding pages what would happen in the district court, 
and that is we think that there needs to be an 
evidentiary hearing and that the -- the Court should 
point out the Kyles error.  But in all events, that 
would still be a sufficient ground for reversal.  But I 
think we could all agree --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Can I ask you a question 

about -- on the procedural default issue?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes.
 JUSTICE ALITO:  Could you -- could you put 

yourself in the position of the Tennessee Court of 
Criminal Appeals?  In light of the briefing that they 
received, if you had been on that court, would you have 
understood that Petitioner was asserting that he had a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

valid reason for not raising the Brady claim earlier, 
because he had not -- at the time when he could have, at 
the time of the prior proceedings, he had not had access 
to the State records?  Would you have understood that 
from the briefing that they got?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I would have, although I 

would have -- I understand your concern about whether it 
was fully elaborated and sufficiently so.  This of 
course was not the procedural default theory that has 
been argued in this case before now.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Was that mentioned in -- in 
either the principal brief or the -- or the reply brief, 
the reason why it wasn't raised earlier?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Insofar as the defendant, 
Mr. Cone, told the court of appeals as to paragraph 35 
and 41, the court of appeals should look at the 
affidavit.  It did not say what the contents of the 
affidavit was as to the Brady claim.

 Now, I will point you to one particular 
point, Justice Alito, on the question of whether we 
fairly preserved this in the State Court of Criminal 
Appeals -- I guess two points that hopefully will give 
you some comfort there.

 The first is that in the entire long course 
of this litigation, the State has never before made this 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

argument; and the second is in the Tennessee Supreme 
Court -- the Tennessee Court of Criminal Appeals decides 
the case.  We take the Brady claim up to the Tennessee 
Supreme Court.  And even there the State doesn't say 
that it was insufficiently preserved.  They file a 
response to our application and they address it as to 
its substance.

 They never made this argument even in the 

State courts.  So I think it -- it could have been 
better briefed.  The reason -- by the way, let me just 
explain to you why --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  How many claims were -- was 
this a case where there, what, 81 separate claim counts?
 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  The -- it -- I don't think 

there were --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, I can understand 
giving a lick and a promise to -- to each one if you 
come up with 81.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  52.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  52.  Close enough.  I'll 

say the same for 52.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  The -- but when we got to my 

point in the Tennessee Supreme Court, there was much 
less action in the case.  The Brady claim was point 
three, there was a lot less that was presented in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

case.

 Look, I don't think -- my point is not to 

say that the State, you know, inexplicably behaved 
horribly here.  There could have been better briefing on 
both sides of this thing.  What I'm saying here, though, 
is that the Petitioner right away presented what is a 
very serious Brady claim to the State courts.  He didn't 
abandon it; he fully presented it; and what he wants is 
one shot.

 There is a footnote in the district court's 
opinion.  There are two, three sentences in the second 
opinion and one sentence in the first opinion of the 
Sixth Circuit.  But nobody has sat down and done this 
and disposed of the merits of this claim as anything 
other than a -- an aside, and it is a very serious 
claim.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  If it is --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Can you tell me what --
can you tell me what is this -- let's suppose that --
that you have -- had an initial Brady claim that there 
was one part of the file that you were entitled to see 
that said that there is some evidence that he's a drug 
addict -- user.  And you take that Brady claim up.

 Later you find out -- you have access to a 
new file and you find cumulative information plus the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

information that he was dazed or something, which may 
not be very -- what's our test to determine whether the 
Brady claim has been exhausted?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Uh --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Or have we talked about 

that?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, this is, I think, 

similar to the Bell v. Kelly question, the case that the 
Court did on when you present a Brady claim and the 
State courts evaluate the merits of that Brady claim, 
and then you find out other material later, and the 
question becomes, how much deference you owe to the 
State courts the first go-around.

 This is a very different case.  The -- all 

of this evidence in the file appeared at one time. 
There weren't -- it wasn't split, and the only time a 
Brady claim was disposed of was at the time this Brady 
claim was disposed of.  After the Woodall files that you 
mentioned became available to the Petitioner, right then 
and there, he added -- there was paragraph 35 and 
paragraph 41 of his post-conviction application that 
were added within a couple months of each other.  The 
State court right away, at the urging of the State, 
said, oh, that's been previously determined, and I won't 
consider the merits. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

So this is not a case in which the State 

court has assessed a Brady claim and said we don't think 
there's any Brady issue here.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But your proposal would 
be that they would never do it because you want to send 
it back to the Federal district court, and it's -- and 
if the State was laboring under misapprehension, it 
thought that, because he brought up the issue twice, he 
had somehow been defaulted, everyone can agree that that 
didn't make sense.

 But now you're proposing that the State 

court will not be the one to look at these materials; 
instead it will be the Federal court.  I think there was 
something that Judge Merritt said in his dissent that 
indicated he thought that the State court ought to be 
the one to do this close examination.  Didn't -- didn't 
he propose a stay of the Brady claim in the Federal 
court pending exhaustion of that claim in the State 
court?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I don't know that he made a 
concrete proposal.  I think he would prefer -- I think 
the court system would prefer it, and I think everyone 
would prefer it.  The dilemma is that it can't happen. 
As we explain in footnote 3 at page 26 of our reply 
brief, there is no window of opportunity to send the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

State -- the case back to the State.  It's been 
dismissed there.  The statute of limitations has run. 
And in a case called Harris v. State, the Tennessee 
Supreme Court said that you couldn't reopen it.

 And so we -- we're not saying we want a 
Federal judge rather than a State judge.  We're just 
saying we want a judge, and our problem is that, 
understanding that there has been some discussion of the 
merits, it has been very thin --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I didn't look, 

counsel, at your -- I don't know if it's yours or your 
predecessor counsel's brief in the -- appealing from the 
district court here to the court of appeals.  Did that 
raise a discussion of the Brady claim on the merits, 
saying that the district court was wrong?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes, it did.  And so we have 

-- we did try to present it to the Sixth Circuit.  The 
Sixth Circuit accepted a finding of procedural default 
that is undefended in this court, and I did want to -- I 
had just started to get to this --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That was -- that was 

not a friendly question.  My point is that you argued 
the merits of the Brady claim not only in the district 
court but specifically on appeal as well.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  It wasn't a friendly 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

question --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So this wasn't sort 

of sua sponte addressing --

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Right.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- the Brady claim 

as kind of a safety net on the procedural --

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  It wasn't a friendly 

question, but it was an honest answer.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  And we did present the 

question to the court of appeals.  We think when it said 
we don't have the power, it was disavowing it.  But even 
-- Mr. Chief Justice, even assuming that the court of 
appeals had a whole section in its opinion saying, we're 
deciding the merits of the Brady claim, my constraint 
was, in framing the question presented, as I explained 
in that footnote in the cert petition -- and I would 
also encourage you to read, I didn't get to the language 
in it, in our reply brief.  We have a whole paragraph 
that explains -- this is at page 4 -- "First, even if 
this Court were to conclude that the court of appeals 
had reached the merits of Petitioner's Brady claim, 
notwithstanding the Sixth Circuit's own repeated 
disavowals of doing so, then the merits of that Brady 
claim ruling would be properly before this Court, not 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

immunized from review.  Indeed, the Brady issue, as 
encompassed within the questions presented, would be 
properly briefed by the parties if certiorari were 
granted."

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Yes.  No, my -- my 

concern is not that you didn't brief the Brady claim; it 
is that -- whatever the non-pejorative synonym for 
"smuggled" it in -- is you smuggled it in on a case that 
purportedly presented a procedural objection and a 
conflict on a procedural issue.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  It's -- I don't think, 
pejorative or not, that it's fair to accuse us of 
smuggling it.  There's a big section in the cert 
petition about it.  It's not -- it was not hidden from 
-- I don't -- I don't purport to tell the Court what it 
was thinking when it granted cert in this case, but I 
tried to be as clear as absolutely possible.

 I was turning to the question of whether we 
have a serious Brady claim and so the Court should have 
some concerns here, and I really do think that we do and 
that the passing observations about the lower courts 
don't fulfill the duty to assess the merits of the Brady 
claim fairly.  There was one -- the action in this case, 
the whole reason that there was effectively a trial, was 
the question of whether the defendant committed these 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

acts in an amphetamine psychosis.  He had two experts 
that explained, because of his post-traumatic stress 
disorder and his very heavy drug issue, that he did not 
understand the consequences of his action.  He was 
completely paranoid.

 And the State went after those experts by 

saying he is not a drug user at all; he's a drug dealer; 
when all the while in their files, there were -- Justice 
Kennedy, to distinguish the hypothetical you gave -- FBI 
teletypes, police reports, witness statements from 
before the day of the robbery, soon thereafter in 
Florida, explaining that he was not just a heavy drug 
user, but was acting -- the witness was asked, Did he 
act like he was on drugs?  And the witness said, yes, he 
did.  That that really would have made a difference in 
at the very least the sentencing phase in this case to 
at least --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Where is that colloquy? 
I remember witnesses saying he looked weird, he looked 
wild-eyed.  Where was the answer that he looked --

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Justice Ginsburg, this is in 
the yellow brief, our merits reply brief.  It starts at 
the very bottom of 21, but you can just start at the top 
of 22.

 And as to this question -- so we're talking 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

here about the evidence, not just that he was a drug 
user, which, I think, would have been relevant to the 
jury, but that he actually was on drugs in August of 
1980 at the time all this was happening.  There's a 
robbery -- there are two robberies here that precede 
these killings, and there's a -- the first one, there's 
a statement about the robbery right before the murders 
confirming that the Petitioner -- he was asked, Did he 
appear to be drunk or high?  And the witness said, yes, 
he did because "he acted real weird."

 The next one is that the day of the -- at 

the jewelry store robbery that immediately preceded the 
killings, that the Petitioner looked wild-eyed, and then 
soon thereafter a police officer reports in Florida that 
he looks "agitated" and "looking about in a frenzied 
manner."

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, you know, I'll give 
you the first, that he appeared drunk or high.  That's 
pretty clear, but I think you tend to look wild-eyed 
after you're running out after a jewelry store robbery, 
and I think you're -- you're certainly inclined to look 
"agitated" and "looking about in a frenzied manner" when 
you've just committed two brutal murders.  I don't think 
that's evidence of drug addiction at all, of being under 
the influence of drugs. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Well, I don't doubt for a 

second that that's exactly the argument that the 
prosecution would have made.  The question is whether a 
juror, in the context of the expert testimony and the 
evidence about drug addiction, could have also found 
that it was consistent with the idea that he was high on 
drugs, whether you can have confidence in saying now --
particularly if you'll give me the first statement.  And 
all the FBI teletypes and the police reports that said 
-- remember this is not just a case about suppression of 
evidence.  This is a case where the prosecution, with 
all this stuff in its files, goes after the experts and 
argues to the jury that he's a drug dealer, not a drug 
user.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  This is a very complicated 

factual question, isn't it?  We're dealing with numerous 
documents, isn't that right, that you claim are --
MR. GOLDSTEIN:  There are key witness 

statements, and there are a series of police reports and 
FBI --

JUSTICE ALITO:  And so you would have to 

evaluate all of those and evaluate the prejudice against 
what was in the record, and you're suggesting now that 
this is something we should decide?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Two points, Justice Alito. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The first is that we say at the very least the Court 
should make the Kyles point and the evidentiary hearing 
point.  And the second is, I think to be fair to us, 
given your point about this is so complicated, there is 
a lot of evidence here, one ought to compare that in 
fairness to what the Sixth Circuit did, and the one 
footnote that the Chief Justice has talked about with 
the district court and whether they really did take a 
hard look at the claim.  I think it would be fair to us 
to say, look, there are some legal errors here that this 
Court can correct, and then the district court would be 
the proper place, if it decides to have an evidentiary 
hearing, to resolve the remainder of the claim.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Let me ask just one quick 

question:  Is it your view that the evidence was 
deliberately suppressed or negligently suppressed?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Deliberately suppressed, 
although it doesn't matter under Brady.  There was --
they turned over almost nothing, and this was the heart 
of our case.  They knew that we were conceding that the 
acts had been committed, and our defense was one of 
insanity, and it was our only argument in mitigation of 
the death penalty.

 If I could --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You recognize that a -- a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

defense like this, that the defendant was high on drugs, 
that isn't ambivalent?  I mean, a jury, just like it 
might react adversely to the defendant if he says I was 
drunk on alcohol, that they might say this is a person 
who put himself in this condition where his will could 
be overpowered, this is a voluntary act, why should we 
consider it, why should we consider it mitigating, we --
we could just as well consider it aggravating?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  It -- it could, and that's 

why I think it's very important that our defense was 
amphetamine psychosis brought on by post traumatic 
stress disorder from honorable service in Vietnam, not 
just that he was a target.

 If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Ms. Smith.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF JENNIFER L. SMITH

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MS. SMITH:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 As the Court has alluded in a number of 

questions, both the district court and the Sixth Circuit 
now twice have resolved -- have rejected Cone's Brady 
claim on the merits, and we believe correctly so in 
light of Cone's actions in the day surrounding the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

murder, his statements about what he did and why he did 
it, and more importantly the lower court's recognition 
that additional evidence --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask -- let me get 

something on the table.  Do you agree that the evidence 
shows that this evidence was deliberately suppressed?

 MS. SMITH:  Your Honor, I don't think 

there's been any -- any finding about the --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But is there any 

explanation for -- was there any explanation for it 
other than the tactical explanation?

 MS. SMITH:  There's no explanation in the 

record, there has been no finding about whether the 
evidence has been suppressed at all in this case because 
both the district court and the Sixth Circuit decided as 
a matter of law that the materials --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  It seems to be relevant 
because if it was suppressed for tactical reasons, it 
seems to me hard to say that the prosecution thought it 
didn't make any difference.

 MS. SMITH:  Well, again, there has --

there's been no finding on that, because each court, and 
I think more than just in a passing statement, each 
court that looked at it, both the district court and the 
Sixth Circuit, have looked point by point, especially in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the district court --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  What they -- one of the 
first questions always troubles me in a Brady case is 
the conduct of the prosecutor and the ethics of the 
profession, the whole -- whole importance of the rule is 
to be sure prosecutors perform their public function. 
And I'm just wondering if there is any -- if this was a 
case of just an honest mistake, it would be one thing, 
but if it appears to have been a tactical decision and a 
tactical program, it seems to me very difficult to 
assume that the prosecutor thought it was really not 
important evidence.

 MS. SMITH:  Your Honor, I certainly 

understand the Court's concern, and I'll just -- and 
again reiterate, there has not been any finding on that, 
but there is at least a suggestion in the record that 
some of the evidence on which the Petitioner is relying 
at this point actually wasn't suppressed.  And we noted 
this in our brief, specifically as to the witness Ilene 
Blankman.

 All of the individual items on which the 

Petitioner is traveling now were the subject of 
cross-examination, so that at least raises the question 
about whether --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Blankman, that isn't the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

concern.  The concern is simply this:  If they're 
correct, that this whole trial revolves around whether 
this individual is suffering post traumatic stress 
disorder with these amphetamines.

 They have two expert witnesses who say that 

he's in very bad shape, everything the defense wanted 
them to say; that's it.  That's their evidence.

 On cross, the prosecutor gets both of them 

to admit that they're basing their testimony on what the 
defendant told them about his drug use.  At which point 
the prosecutor says, let's talk to Mr. Roby, who is the 
arresting officer, did you see he was on -- when you 
arrested him, was he on -- did he look like he was on 
drugs?  No.

 Let's talk to Mr. Flynn.  When you processed 

him, did he look like he was on drugs?  No.  And then 
let's talk to Ms. Blankman, okay?

 So, now the case is submitted, and at that 
point the prosecutor says, there is no evidence that he 
was on drugs.  He said that.  Two, those two expert 
witnesses, and it's baloney.  There's your case.

 Now, in fact in the files is evidence that 
Mr. Roby, that very day of the crime and the next day, 
sent out all-points bulletins saying he was a dangerous 
drug user.  There is evidence in the files that Mr. --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that the FBI man sent out similar all-point bulletins. 
There are three witnesses who have described the 
behavior of the day as frenzied, and we have heard the 
descriptions.

 And you're saying that the lawyer, the 

trained lawyer for the government, who knew this 
information and knew the defense just what?  Just 
overlooked it by accident?  Just what?

 MS. SMITH:  Well, Your Honor, I can't speak 

for the prosecutor's state of mind at the time, but I 
will -- will state that the central question in the case 
was not whether the Petitioner used drugs.  There was 
evidence in the record from his mother, there was 
evidence in the record from his own mouth --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  He was conceded that he was 

a drug user.

 MS. SMITH:  That's exactly right.  It came 

through the State's own --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  And that he was dangerous 

because he admitted the murders.

 MS. SMITH:  It came -- some of that came 

through the State's own witnesses.  And -- and the 
argument the State made about him being a drug user 
versus a drug seller was not the only argument the State 
made.  The State specifically said look at -- to the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

jury, look at what he did on the day of the murders, 
look at what he did on Saturday and Sunday to go to his 
state of mind.  And the State focused on the -- the goal 
oriented, the purposeful behavior and the very direct 
behavior --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do you think that the 
material described by Justice Breyer would have been 
excluded by the trial court as irrelevant if it had been 
introduced, or cumulative as --

MS. SMITH:  I don't think it would have been 
excluded.  I think it could have been used to attempt to 
cross-examine certainly Agent Roby.  But Agent Roby's 
testimony didn't -- didn't state that Mr. Cone was not a 
drug user.  Mr. Roby -- Agent Roby's testimony was that 
at the time that he observed him, four days after the 
murders, he didn't appear to be on -- under the 
influence of drugs, and when he saw him eight days after 
the murder, he examined his body and there were no 
needle marks.

 The testimony was very specific as to his 
observations on the four-day point and the eight-day 
point as to the murders.

 Same with Agent Flynn --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do you think the 

prosecutor had an ethical duty to turn over this 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

material?

 MS. SMITH:  I think that the material -- if 

the material -- if the subject was immaterial --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  It's a simple question, 

yes or no?

 MS. SMITH:  I think that as a legal matter 
there was no -- no need to turn it over because it was 
immaterial.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  That's not my question. 

Can you answer my question?  Did he have an ethical duty 
to turn this material over?

 MS. SMITH:  I'm unaware of any ethical 
requirement that he turn it over, and I don't think 
that -- and certainly under Brady if it's not material, 
we don't think it was material, then it's certainly not 
required as a constitutional matter.  And the reason is 
not --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  You believe that the 

materiality judgment is yours to make, the State's to 
make as sort of a gate keeping measure?  Isn't the 
materiality an issue for the fact finder?

 MS. SMITH:  Well, I think it's -- it's --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  You exclude -- do you 

believe that you can, in effect, suppress any piece of 
evidence on -- on -- on the State's judgment that it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

will not prove to be material in the context of the 
whole case?

 MS. SMITH:  I think prosecutors make those 

kind of judgment calls all the time.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Do you think that's a 

proper judgment for the prosecution to make?

 MS. SMITH:  Well, I think that probably a 

prudent prosecutor would err on the side of turning over 
matters that --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Right.  And --
MS. SMITH:  -- have some relevance.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Wouldn't -- wouldn't he err 

on the side of turning over the matters because Brady 
leaves the materiality judgment, like all materiality 
judgments, ultimately, to the fact finder?

 MS. SMITH:  Certainly ultimately it's left 

to the fact finder, but the prosecutor is --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, initially Brady 
leaves the judgment for, furthering Justice Souter's 
point, to the attorney for the defense.  You're saying 
that the prosecutor can preempt the role of the attorney 
for the defense in deciding what to offer to the court 
as material?  And if -- and if -- and if -- even if the 
evidence is in a gray area, that's for the defense 
attorney to decide under -- under our Brady 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

jurisprudence, as I understand it.  Correct me if that's 
wrong.

 MS. SMITH:  Well, I think -- yes, I think 
the defense ultimately would make the decision how to 
use the evidence that comes into his possession.  But 
obviously, the prosecutor has to make an initial 
judgment call about whether or not the evidence is going 
to be material, given what he knows about -- about the 
defense.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Isn't the prosecutor's 

obligation to make an initial assessment as to whether 
the evidence tends to be mitigating evidence or 
favorable to the defendant?  Isn't that the prosecutor's 
judgment?

 MS. SMITH:  I think that -- that falls 

within that -- the prosecutor's judgment.  But I think 
if we look -- look at the evidence in --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Isn't this evidence clearly 

of a mitigating character?

 MS. SMITH:  No, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  You don't think -- you 
don't think it would be favorable to the defendant 
getting the evidence that Justice Breyer summarized a 
moment ago?

 MS. SMITH:  No, sir, I do not.  There was 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

already evidence before the jury that the defendant was 
a drug addict, that he was a drug user, that he was 
changed after Vietnam.  This Court's own opinion in 2002 
noted that he was a drug addict.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Maybe I'm being -- but 

Justice Breyer made the point, and made it, I think very 
clearly, that although that evidence was in, the 
argument here -- the argument that was made before the 
jury in this case is that the witnesses upon whom the 
defense was specifically relying, were witnesses whose 
account of the defendant's drug use came solely from the 
defendant himself.

 Given that fact, wouldn't it have been 

mitigating evidence to learn that other people, at times 
relatively close to the events in question, without 
being coached by the defendant, had concluded that he 
was a drug user?  Wouldn't that have been mitigating 
evidence?

 MS. SMITH:  I don't think that it would have 

been material to --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  We are not asking about 
materiality at this point.  We are asking about the 
mitigating character of the evidence.  Would it have 
been favorable to the defendant?  Would that have been 
its tendency? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. SMITH:  I think it added no more than --

than what was already before the jury.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  That was not my question. 
Was it favorable evidence?  Did it have a tendency to 
favor the defendant?

 MS. SMITH:  No, not under his theory, and 

the reason is --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Then I will be candid with 
you that I simply cannot follow your argument because I 
believe you have just made a statement to me that is 
utterly irrational.

 MS. SMITH:  Well, let me explain if I -- if 
I may, and the reason I say that it is not mitigating is 
because the -- the entire question in the defense and 
for mitigation purposes is the defendant's state of mind 
at the time of the murder.

 There was already evidence that there was --

that he was a drug user.  The fact that he was a drug 
user doesn't say anything more -- or additional evidence 
of drug use says nothing more about his state of mind at 
the time of the crime than what was already presented. 
The question is not whether he was a drug user.  The 
record showed it.  It came out of the mouths of the 
State's own witness.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But what about the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

prosecutor who said "baloney."  He said the prosecutor 
-- the prosecutor says:  The defendant tells you he was 
a drug user.  Baloney, he was a drug dealer.

 The prosecutor deliberately tried to paint 
this man as somebody who had a huge quantity of drugs, 
which he did, and he was dealing in them.  I mean the --
the prosecutor tried to portray a man who was a cold-
blooded killer, who didn't have any blurred vision.

 And that line to the jury, "baloney" -- he 

says he was a drug user -- that, it seems to me, is 
exactly what the prosecutor wanted to do, which is to 
tell this jury this guy's a dealer; he's not a drug 
abuser.

 MS. SMITH:  I think that the prosecutor 

overstated in that portion of his argument, Your Honor.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  You also had cross-examined 

the two expert witnesses in order to show that they 
didn't really know that this man was a drug user, 
because their only basis for that was he told them.  So 
as I've read these briefs, I've come away concluding 
yours with a strong impression that this was a relevant 
issue.  That the prosecution did not concede that he was 
on drugs at the time of the murder.  Indeed, that that 
was all that was at issue.

 And so I just don't see, like Justice 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Souter, how you can say that this wouldn't at least be 
useful information if -- even for cross-examination, and 
I think more than that since you have three direct 
witnesses.

 But leaving that aside, there's another part 

of this case that equally bothers me.  It seems to me 
there was a lawyer for the State here that twice told 
the courts that this matter had never been raised.  Is 
that so?  Or maybe he said that the courts had decided 
it because the State has taken absolutely inconsistent 
positions, first saying that the trial courts decided 
it, and they did decide it, but by accident.  They 
thought that paragraph 41 referred to this claim when it 
referred to an earlier claim.

 So first they tell the courts -- and you 

wouldn't know that unless you are pretty familiar 
because there were a lot of words written.  They tell 
the courts:  It's been decided, judge.  Don't worry. 
They decided it:  Adequate State ground.  And next they 
wake up to the fact that it wasn't decided, and then 
they announce:  Oh, he waived it, despite the fact that 
there's a case called Swanson in Tennessee that says 
that you can raise a later claim if you have grounds for 
not knowing of it in the first place.  And he didn't 
know of it until 1993. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

So I see the State taking opposite 

positions, and -- and what seems from the briefs 
inconsistent with the State law, and I'm confused.  What 
is it that happened in this case?

 MS. SMITH:  Well, I -- I want to answer your 

question, and I will answer your question, Your Honor, 
if I could just say one thing about the Brady.  We don't 
dispute that the material in question is relevant to the 
defense and is relevant to the sentence.

 We dispute that it's material.  We don't 
think it's material in every court where the district 
court and the sixth circuit have found it immaterial. 
But on the -- on the -- the -- what has happened in 
terms of the procedural defense, we have confessed that 
there was an error by the State in the -- in the post-
conviction court.

 We agree that Tennessee law does allow -- it 

certainly at -- at this time did allow a petitioner to 
raise -- to -- to file successive petitions if that 
petitioner could establish cause.  Now, the prosecutor 
in the course of responding to some 80 claims, both 
parts and subparts, made a mistake and read paragraph 35 
as being similar to -- to a claim that had been raised 
on direct appeal and argued that it appeared to be the 
same.  That was an error. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Likewise, the trial court erroneously ruled 

that both paragraph 35 and paragraph 41, both Brady 
claims, had been previously determined on direct appeal 
or post-conviction.  That was an error.  We have 
confessed that in our brief and -- and do at this point.

 Now, in the appeal the petitioner doesn't 

again raise the Brady claim.  In his principal brief he 
never mentions the Brady claim.  He never even reaches 
--

JUSTICE ALITO:  If we read the -- can I ask 

you this:  If we read the decision of the Court of 
Criminal Appeals as having ratified the -- the district 
court's -- the -- the lower court's treatment of the 
procedural default issues, having rejected it on the 
ground that it was previously decided, that would be an 
instance in which a State court applied a procedural 
default rule based on an undisputed error of fact.

 In that situation, would it not -- wouldn't 
it be clear that there was not an adequate, independent 
State ground for the decision; and, therefore, no 
procedural default?  And if we were to find that, 
wouldn't the appropriate step be on this very factual 
Brady issue to send it back to the lower federal courts?

 MS. SMITH:  In answer to your first 

question, yes, we don't disagree with the proposition 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that if a trial -- that if a State court refuses to 
consider a claim on the basis that that claim has been 
determined previously, that that would not be an 
adequate basis for a procedural default in Federal 
Court.

 But we don't -- I don't think that this case 
presents that scenario, and every court that has looked 
at the Court of Criminal Appeals's decision has read 
that decision as applying a waiver.  The District Court 
read that decision as applying a waiver.  If you look at 
-- at page 112-A of the petition appendix, not only does 
the District Court read it as a waiver, but the 
Petitioner read it as a applying a waiver.  Because as 
you note in that first sentence, as to the Brady claim 
to the district court, Cone also attempts to argue that 
those claims were improperly held waived by the court.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, "waiver," my 

goodness.  First, I don't think it's impossible to say 
"waiver" since he wrote the words in paragraph 41 that 
make absolutely clear that they aren't waiving it.  He 
is raising it.

 Then, aside from that, the paragraph of the 
district -- of the court of appeals's opinion says they 
were already decided or waived.  So it's ambiguous, at 
best, for you. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

So let's go back and see what the State 

district court held, and I think that the State district 
court held that it had been decided, not that it had 
been waived.  Am I right?

 MS. SMITH:  The trial court --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.
 MS. SMITH:  -- held that.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  So there the cases 
in this Court would say if a State appeals court writes 
a matter -- something -- a sentence that is ambiguous so 
you don't know whether it was decided:  For example, 
they mean it was waived or mean that it was decided, 
then the next best thing to do, which makes sense, is 
look to the lower court to see what they actually did.

 So we follow that rule, and we get to 

exactly what justice Alito said:  That what they did was 
they were holding that this has already been decided.

 MS. SMITH:  I think that rule holds if the 

petitioner has made the argument to the appellate court. 
Here the Petitioner didn't make the argument to the 
appellate court.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Don't you think at this 
point the Petitioner is saying in -- in his briefs: 
I've been getting the runaround.  First, they tell me 
it's one thing; then they tell me another.  All I can 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

tell you is this:  No one has ever passed on the merits 
of this Brady claim, which is a substantial claim.

 MS. SMITH:  Well, I --
JUSTICE BREYER:  So you choose the 
procedures, but be sure that that's the outcome.

 MS. SMITH:  Well, first of all, Your Honor, 

I don't think the Petitioner has been getting the 
runaround.  The Petitioner has always throughout this 
litigation proceeded on the premise that the CCA -- the 
Court of Criminal Appeals's decision in Tennessee was 
based on a waiver.  All of his briefs in the lower court 
and in the -- the sixth circuit reflect that.

 The District Court proceeded as if that 
ruling was a waiver.  The sixth circuit in its 2001 
decision, if you look at page 62-A and 62 -- 63-A at the 
bottom, the -- the sixth circuit specifically said the 
Tennessee waiver rule is plainly applicable to the Brady 
claim.  And the Tennessee courts explicitly relied on 
the waiver rule.

 It wasn't until the 2007 opinion that the --
the sixth circuit even discussed this notion of previous 
determination, and only then in response to what I think 
was a red herring injected by the dissenting opinion 
that somehow the -- the Court of Criminal Appeals's 
decision stood for something different than what the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

parties and the courts had been reading it all along. 
The Court of Criminal Appeals --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Could the explanation of 

this language in the opinion be due to the fact that the 
State first argued that it had already been decided; 
then in later courts the State changed its theory and 
announced that it had been waived?

 MS. SMITH:  The State --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Isn't that why they're 

writing about waiver?

 MS. SMITH:  No, Your Honor.  The State has 
consistently maintained throughout the habeas that the 
-- that the Brady claim was either defaulted or waived. 
In the answer to the petition, the State presented the 
very argument that they're presenting today, that the 
Court of Criminal Appeals relied on a waiver.  In the --
in the brief to the Sixth Circuit --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Spell out the waiver in 
light of what he said.  The first time he learns that 
these -- cases, other cases cited and he has access to 
the district attorney's file, he then files a habeas, 
State habeas petition in which he said that the facts on 
which his Brady claim rests have been revealed through 
disclosure of the State's files which occurred after the 
first conviction proceeding.  Those words are in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

affidavit -- right -- that came with the second 
petition.  So how could he possibly have waived this 
when he has explained it wasn't available to him?

 MS. SMITH:  Well, I think to understand how 
this -- how this could happen, the bottom line is that 
he failed to demonstrate to the State courts why he 
should -- he was properly before the court to begin 
with; and when you -- when you raise a claim -- he 
buried his claim among a hundred other parts and 
subparts.  If --if he had a legitimate claim, he 
certainly didn't highlight it as such, and then he -- he 
buried even further his explanation for a waiver in a 
41-page affidavit filed six days before the State 
court's ruling in this case.

 It was the first time in the entire case 
that he mentioned anything at all about access to the 
prosecutor's files.  Then when he got an adverse 
judgment in the trial court he never even made the 
argument in the Court of Criminal Appeals.  He took a 
completely different theory about waiver, said that 
waiver was personal, and should be -- should be judged 
on a subjective standard rather than objective -- never 
mentioned to the Court of Criminal Appeals any argument 
whatsoever about access to the prosecutor's files.

 It was on the basis of that argument that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the Court of Criminal Appeals held that the Petitioner 
had failed to rebut the presumption of waiver as a 
matter of law as to all claims that had not been 
previously determined.

 So that holding is an overarching holding, 
it applies to every claim that was raised in the first 
term and in the successive habeas position, and we think 
justified the district -- it certainly was the basis of 
the district court's default and as well, in 2001 was 
the basis of the Sixth Circuit's decision.

 Now, regarding the 2007 decision, we concede 

that that decision could be read as presenting the 
question 1, where this Court relies on a finding of 
previous determination, but we don't think that's what 
the court did in 2007.  In 2007 the court specifically 
ruled that it was not revisiting the Brady claim.  That 
was a decision based on law of the case principles, and 
to the extent that it discussed previous determination, 
we don't think it in any way intended to modify its 
earlier holding.

 In 2001 the Sixth Circuit clearly relied on 
the waiver bar, and that's very evident on pages 62 and 
63a in the petition appendix, and that's the basis of 
the waiver.  So we don't even think that the -- that the 
situation in question 1 is even presented, although 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

if -- to answer a question, in response to Justice 
Alito's question, I think it would be -- would be an 
absurd result that something that has been previously 
determined is defaulted, but that's not the situation 
here.  The record shows it's not previously determined. 
The Petitioner has never argued that it's previously 
determined, and no court until this point has ever even 
read the Court of Criminal Appeals decision as making a 
previous determination finding.  Everyone has accepted 
the fact that that holding was a waiver holding.

 So on that -- that's the basis of the 

default, and the reason that he has defaulted is that he 
failed to make that argument when he had -- when he the 
opportunity to make it.  He could have made it, and he 
didn't make it.  He buried all his good arguments, even 
on his waiver argument, he was making inconsistent 
arguments.  On the one hand, he was saying the claim was 
novel, the claim that my post-conviction counsel didn't 
discuss it with me.  On the other hand, he says that I'm 
just now finding out about it.  Those are completely 
inconsistent theories, and the theory that he actually 
presented in the Court of Criminal Appeals bears no 
resemblance to the argument that he is making now or 
that he made in the district court.

 But all of this aside, it really is -- is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

beside the point because at the end of the day, the 
district court very clearly addressed -- and 
specifically, not just in passing, but specifically at 
various points in its -- in its opinion, the materiality 
of each and every item of evidence.

 He went through in detail a discussion of 

the police teletypes, stating that -- that the jury 
already was aware that he was a drug user.  It really 
wasn't any question whether he was a drug user; the 
evidence clearly showed that he was.  The question was 
what was his State of mind at the time evidence was what 
was his state of mind at the time of the murders.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  What -- what do you say to 
the argument on the other side, that these various items 
of -- of Brady material were averted to and were 
discussed on a purely isolated basis; they were not 
discussed in terms of their cumulative effect, which 
Kyles v Whitley says is the standard.  What's your 
response to that?

 MS. SMITH:  Well, I think if you look at the 

-- at the district court's opinion, I could that 
argument could be made based upon the way the district 
court treated the items.  The district court certainly 
did look at them in categories and separated them; but I 
think if you look at the Sixth Circuit's opinion, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

certainly in 2007 where the court -- the court looked at 
it in more detail, I think that it is clear that the 
court cumulated the items and said as a whole that the 
Brady materials don't undermine -- do not undermine 
confidence in the verdict.  So I disagree that -- that 
the Sixth Circuit treated them incorrectly, and -- and I 
would note --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Do -- do you agree the 

prosecutor was arguing, when he said that he's a drug 
dealer, that he was not a drug user?  Was it -- was it 
conceded that he was a drug user?  I suspect it was not.
 I said earlier it was, and it seems that it 
was not, because he introduced one witness to say that 
there were no -- no needle marks on his body, which 
would suggest that he's trying to make the point to the 
jury that this person doesn't even use drugs.

 MS. SMITH:  Your Honor, I -- I think I've 
noted earlier, I think that the prosecutor overstated 
his case on that point, no question about it; but I 
think there was ample evidence in the record indicating 
that he was a drug user.  This Court even noted that, 
even noted there was proof of the fact that he was a 
drug addict, that he was a drug user, that the evidence 
was strong that he was -- that he was under the 
influence of an amphetamine psychosis.  There were two 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

experts that testified to that.  On the other hand, 
there were two experts for the State that said that that 
-- that defense couldn't be supported.

 So the question of whether he was a drug 

user or not a drug user was really beside the point.  I 
think the prosecutor eventually got around to that in 
his argument.  When you look at the argument of the 
whole, the bottom line of the argument was, and we 
quoted it in our brief, "look at what he did, look at 
his actions around this murder, and let that go to his 
state of mind," because that was the best evidence.  Not 
only is that -- he said, he specifically said he went 
into this individual's home with the purpose of getting 
fed, getting cleaned up and getting out of town, and 
when the Todds ceased to cooperate with him, he had to 
control them physically.  That's code I suppose for 
beating them to death because that's exactly what he 
did.

 He explained what he did and why he did it. 
His actions are very calculated from -- from beginning 
to end.  So whether he used drugs or didn't use drugs, 
the question is what was going on at the time of this 
murder, and by his own admission the reason that the 
Todds are -- are not with us today is because they 
ceased to cooperate; they became frightened; and he had 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to control them physically.  I think that's the best 
evidence of his state of mind at the time.  Those are 
words out of his own mouth, and I think that that 
certainly supports the finding of both the district 
court and the Sixth Circuit on materiality.

 I agree with the Chief Justice's assessment; 
we do not think that the Brady claim is fairly included 
within the question.  The merits issue is not a 
predicate to the default question.  I certainly 
understand Petitioner's dilemma in this case, but I 
think faced with that dilemma, he should have squarely 
presented that question among the questions presented 
and not dropped it in a footnote in argument 2.  We 
don't think it's fairly presented; but -- but in any 
event, it certainly justifies affirmance of the judgment 
or at a minimum the dismissal of the appeal.

 And for all these reasons, if there are no 

further questions, we ask this Court to affirm the 
judgment of the district court -- of the Sixth Circuit.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  It's outside the record 
and not really relevant to the case.  Has he been on 
death row since 1984 or so?  And if so, is that solitary 
confinement?  Is he not allowed -- if you know?

 MS. SMITH:  I don't know.  I'm not aware 

that he's in any sort of heightened level of security. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

I would assume he's just at a standard level.  I don't 
know his security level, but he has been on death row 
for the entire period, Your Honor.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

Mr. Goldstein, you have three minutes.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Thank you, Mr. Chief 

Justice.

 Justice Kennedy, he has been on death row; 

he is not in solitary confinement.

 Here's the dilemma I think about how the 

Court needs to dispose of the case.  On the one hand, we 
have the State, which is unapologetic about having 
suppressed a whole bunch of evidence and about having 
misstated the procedural history to the State court and 
then to the Sixth Circuit.  On the other hand, the 
Court's business is usually not to get into the weeds, 
things like fact-bound Brady claims, and I think that 
the Court can accommodate both the concern of the signal 
that it would send in affirming the judgment in this 
case and also the -- the bad precedent it might set by 
getting into the Johnson pitfalls of this witness 
statement and that witness statement, by resolving the 
case as follows: 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

On page 22 and 24a of the petition appendix, 

the court of appeals says the claim was procedurally 
defaulted because it was previously determined.  That's 
wrong.  That is the argument that was passed upon by the 
court of appeals, and that should be reversed on 
procedural grounds.

 On the Brady claim, it seems to me that the 
court of appeals, when it did discuss the claim, made a 
couple of big mistakes the Court could identify and send 
the case back.  The first is, when it talked about the 
merits, it said we don't think this evidence would have 
mattered because there was a lot of evidence at trial 
that he was a drug user.  But as has been discussed, I 
think in detail, the court of appeals, because its 
assessment was kind of passing here, misunderstood that 
when the experts said that, when the prosecutor turned 
around and completely discredited that.  And so I think 
that colors the Sixth Circuit's assessment incorrectly.

 The second is the Kyles point, and the third 
is the possibility that we're entitled to an evidentiary 
hearing.

 And so I think an opinion of this Court that 

simply dealt with the undefended procedural default 
ruling and then went to the merits and only made those 
three points and then left it to the lower courts to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

resolve the Brady claim ultimately would balance the 
concern about the Court's institutional interests in not 
sending a signal of affirming this judgment in light of 
what the State has done here and not getting into the 
weeds of the claim.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Is there anything in 

the court of appeals' treatment of the Brady claim on 
the merits that suggests it also treated them separately 
in the different silos, as you put it?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.  We 

point out that the court of appeals twice said, "We 
consider the four different categories of Brady evidence 
separately."  And then when it did discuss them -- it's 
very hard to tell, its discussion is so passing here --
but it does go through this kind of evidence, say, the 
FBI files or the police teletypes from Agent Roby, and 
it says that wouldn't have been persuasive, and then it 
turns to the witness statements.  But I would also say 
that its overarching point --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Where do they say 

that they're only considering the categories separately?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  On page 57a.  "We take" --
"We will take up each category of documents separately 
and discuss whether they are" --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That's the 2001 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

opinion.  Do they do that in the 2007 opinion?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  No.  The -- in the 2007 
opinion, that discussion happens at 25a, and here is 
their explanation.  It goes to my first point.  And they 
do sort of then turn around and treat them more 
generally.  "It would not have been news to the jurors 
that Cone was a drug user.  They had already heard 
substantial direct evidence that he was a drug user, 
including the opinion of the two expert witnesses, 
Cone's mother, the drugs found in Cone's car, and 
photographic evidence."  And that's our point, that that 
was discredited because it came out of his mouth.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What was the photographic 

evidence?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  There was one photo.  It 
actually points in the opposite direction.  The State 
cites it in its merit brief.  They have a picture of 
Cone as not having any needle marks, to your point, 
Justice Scalia, that they tried to prove he wasn't a 
drug user at all.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Thank you very much.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

I'm sorry, Mr. Goldstein, one moment.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Yes.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Did you raise --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

cite Kyles in your petition for cert?

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  I can tell that you quickly, 

Mr. Chief Justice.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Oh, I see it.  Yes. 

Pages 30 and 32.  Okay.

 MR. GOLDSTEIN:  Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 The case is submitted.
 (Whereupon, at 12:07 p.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

aggravating 

33:14,23 56:16  answering 7:18 
apologize 9:17 
appeal 21:24 
41:24 42:3,6 
53:16 

agitated 25:15 

25:22 

28:8 

argues 26:13 
arguing 51:9 
argument 1:12 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

applicable 45:17  assume 30:11
application 17:6 

54:1

amphetamine 

3:16 24:1 
28:11 51:25 
amphetamines 

31:4 

19:21 

applied 42:16 
applies 48:6 
applying 43:9 

43:10,13 

ample 51:20 
announce 40:21 
announced 46:7  approach 12:23 
answer 4:10 
7:18 10:7 
12:25 22:8 
24:20 34:10 
41:5,6 42:24 
46:14 49:1 

area 35:24 
argue 43:15 
argued 16:10 
21:22 41:24 
46:5 49:6 

appropriate 
14:15 42:22 

appealing 21:12 
appeals 3:24 
4:14,18 6:16 
6:23 8:23 
11:24 12:21 
15:23 16:15,16 
16:22 17:2 
21:13 22:11,14 
22:21 42:12 
44:9 46:2,16 
47:19,23 48:1 
49:8,22 55:2,5 
55:8,14 56:7 
56:11 

2:2,7 3:3,6 
7:25 17:1,8
26:2 27:22
28:17 32:23,24
37:8,8 38:9 
39:15 44:19,20
46:15 47:19,23
47:25 49:13,16
49:23 50:14,22
52:7,7,8 53:13 
54:6 55:4
arguments
49:15,17
arose 12:19
arrested 31:13
arresting 31:12
43:23 45:10,24  articulates 9:14
aside 18:15 40:5 

appeals's 43:8 

appear 25:9 

APPEARAN... 

33:16 

1:14 

appeared 19:15 

25:18 41:24 
appears 30:9 

43:22 49:25
asked 13:11,12

24:13 25:8

asking 37:21,22
asserting 15:25
assess 23:22
assessed 20:2
assessment

13:20 36:11
53:6 55:15,18
Associate 1:17

assuming 22:13
attempt 33:11
attempts 43:15
attention 11:16
attorney 1:17
35:20,21,25

attorney's 46:21
August 9:25

available 19:19

25:3

47:3

averted 50:15
avoiding 14:3
avowedly 14:8
aware 50:8

53:24

a.m 1:13 3:2 

B

back 4:1 10:9 

12:3 14:4 20:6 
21:1 42:23
44:1 55:10

bad 31:6 54:22 
balance 56:1
baloney 31:21

39:1,3,9
bar 48:22
based 42:17
45:11 48:17
50:22

basing 31:9
basis 39:19 43:2 

43:4 47:25
48:8,10,23
49:11 50:16

bears 49:22
beating 52:17
beginning 52:20
behalf 1:15,18
2:4,6,9 3:7 
28:18 54:7
behaved 18:3
behavior 32:3

33:4,5

12:11 

admission 52:23 
admit 31:9 
admitted 32:20 
adverse 47:17 
adversely 28:3 
affidavit 16:17 
16:18 47:1,13 

affirm 53:18 
affirmance 

affirming 54:21 

53:15 

56:3 

Agent 33:12,12 

ago 10:2 12:20 

36:24 

agree 9:15 15:17 

20:9 29:5 
41:17 51:8 
53:6 

agreeing 9:20 

13:22 

alcohol 28:4 
Alito 13:12 15:4 
15:18,21 16:11 
16:20 26:15,21 
26:25 42:10 
44:16 

Alito's 49:2 
allegedly 5:6 
allow 41:17,18 
allowed 53:23 
alluded 28:21 
all-point 32:1 
all-points 31:24 
alternate 8:19 

8:22 

A 

abandon 18:8 
above-entitled 

1:11 58:10 

absolutely 23:17 

40:10 43:20 
absurd 49:3 
abuser 39:13 
academic 4:7 
accepted 21:18 

49:9 

access 10:17 
11:2 12:10 
16:3 18:24 
46:20 47:16,24 

accident 32:8 

accommodate 

40:12 

54:20 

account 37:11 
accuse 23:12 
act 24:14 28:6 
acted 25:10 
acting 24:13 
action 17:24 
23:23 24:4 
actions 28:25 

52:10,20 

acts 24:1 27:21 
added 19:20,22 

38:1 

addict 3:15 

18:23 37:2,4 
51:23 

addiction 25:24 

additional 29:3 

26:5 

38:19 

address 4:5 7:11 

9:17 13:18 
17:6 

addressed 12:22 

50:2 

addressing 22:3 
adequate 40:19 

42:19 43:4 
adjudication 

alternative 13:2  appellate 44:19 
ambiguous 

44:21 

43:24 44:10 

ambivalent 28:2 
amounts 14:18 

appendix 4:16 
43:11 48:23 
55:1 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

believe 14:14 

28:24 34:18,24 
38:10 

believes 13:16 
Bell 1:6 3:4 19:8 
benefit 13:9 
best 43:25 44:13 

52:11 53:1 
better 17:10 

big 13:9 23:13 

18:4 

55:9 

Blankman 

30:20,25 31:17 

blooded 39:8 
blurred 39:8 
body 6:19,25 
7:19 33:18 
51:14 

bothers 40:6 
bottom 4:22 
24:23 45:16 
47:5 52:8 

BRADFORD 

1:3 

50:15 51:4 
53:7 54:19 
55:7 56:1,7,12 

Breyer 30:25 
33:7 36:23 
37:6 39:16 
43:17 44:6,8 
44:22 45:4 
46:3,9 

brief 9:3,6,7,8 
15:5,6 16:12 
16:12 20:25 
21:12 22:19 
23:6 24:22,22 
30:19 42:5,7 
46:17 52:9 
57:17 

briefed 17:10 

23:3 

briefing 15:23 

16:5 18:4 
briefs 39:20 
41:2 44:23 
45:11 

bring 13:8 
brought 20:8 

32:1 

28:11 

49:15 

business 54:18 

buried 47:9,12 

bulletins 31:24 

Brady 3:19,22 
3:24 4:15,20 
4:25 5:7,15,17  brutal 25:23 
6:3,12,24 7:5 
7:13 8:13,24 
11:3,5,17 12:2  bunch 54:15 
13:4,23 14:2 
15:3,9 16:1,18 
17:3,24 18:7 
18:20,23 19:3 
19:9,10,17,17 
20:2,3,17 
21:14,23 22:5 
22:15,22,24 
23:1,6,19,22 
27:18 28:23 
30:3 34:14 
35:13,18,25 
41:7 42:2,7,8 
42:23 43:14 
45:2,17 46:13 
46:23 48:16 

calls 11:15 35:4 
candid 38:8
car 57:10
case 3:4,10,14
4:1,9,14 8:4 

calculated 52:20
call 15:1,1 36:7 
called 21:3

C 1:15 2:1,3,8 

3:1,6 54:6 

40:22

C

9:23 10:19 
11:4,10,18,20 
11:24 12:24 
13:14 15:6,7 
16:10 17:3,13 
17:24 18:1 
19:8,14 20:1 
21:1,3 23:8,16 
23:23 24:16 
26:10,11 27:20 
29:14 30:3,8 
31:18,21 32:11 
35:2 37:9 40:6 
40:22 41:4 
43:6 47:14,15 
48:17 51:19 
53:10,21 54:13 
54:22,25 55:10 
58:8,9 

cases 8:18 44:8 

46:20,20 

categories 14:10 
50:24 56:12,21 

4:3 5:1,8,19,22 
6:1,6,13,17 7:7 
7:10,17 8:18 
9:10 11:15,22 
12:12,15 13:5 
13:21 14:1 
21:10,21 22:2 
22:5,13 23:5 
27:7 28:15,19 
53:6 54:4,8 
56:6,10,20,25 
57:22,25 58:3 
58:4,7 

choose 45:4 
circuit 8:6 13:17 

14:8,17 15:1 
18:13 21:17,18 
27:6 28:22 
29:15,25 41:12 
45:12,14,16,21 
46:17 48:21 
51:6 53:5,19 
54:17 

certainly 25:21 

category 56:23  Circuit's 22:23 
cause 41:20 
48:10 50:25 
caused 12:8 
55:18 
CCA 45:9 
cite 58:1 
cited 46:20 
ceased 52:15,25 
cites 57:17 
central 32:11 
claim 3:19,22 
cert 5:10,16,23 
6:19,25 7:19 
4:15 5:15,17 
6:4,11,14,24 
8:11 9:6,8,8 
7:6,13 8:13,24 
22:17 23:13,16 
9:7 11:3,5 
58:1 
12:11 14:3 
15:3,9 16:1,18 
17:3,13,24 
18:7,14,16,20 
18:23 19:3,9 
19:10,17,18 
20:2,17,18 
21:14,23 22:5 
22:15,22,25 
23:6,19,23 
26:17 27:9,13 
28:24 40:13,14 
40:23 41:23 

30:13 33:12 
34:14,15 35:16 
41:18 47:11 
48:8 50:23 
51:1 53:4,9,15 
certiorari 23:3 
change 4:8 
changed 37:3 

character 36:19 

Chief 3:3,8,20 

37:23 

46:6 

42:7,8 43:2,2 
43:14 45:2,2 
45:18 46:13,23 
47:8,9,10 48:6 
48:16 49:17,18 
53:7 55:2,7,8 
56:1,5,7 

claims 4:20,24 

4:25 17:12 
41:21 42:3 
43:16 48:3 
54:19 

cleaned 52:14 
clear 8:23 11:12 

14:5 23:17 
25:19 42:19 
43:20 51:2 

clearly 5:12,18 
8:2,4,19 9:9 
36:18 37:7 
48:21 50:2,10 
close 13:9 17:20 

20:16 37:15 
coached 37:16 
code 52:16 
cold 39:7 
colloquy 24:18 
colors 55:18 
come 7:19 12:3 

14:4 17:18 
39:20 

comes 3:10 36:5 
comfort 16:23 
committed 3:15 

10:1 23:25 
25:23 27:21 
common 13:8 
compare 27:5 
completely 24:5 

47:20 49:20 
55:17 

complicated
9:12 12:24 
26:15 27:4 

concede 39:22 

48:11 

conceded 32:15 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

51:11 

contents 16:17 
conceding 27:20  contest 13:19 
concern 8:3 16:7  contested 3:14 

context 26:4 

35:1 

contrary 15:5 
control 52:16 

53:1 

conviction 10:5 

41:16 46:25 

cooperate 52:15 

52:25 

correct 27:11 

31:2 36:1 

correctly 28:24 
counsel 8:15 
21:11 28:15 
49:18 54:4 
57:22 58:7 

counsel's 21:12 
counts 17:13 
couple 4:4 5:13 

7:21 10:7 
19:22 55:9 

course 5:24 6:7 

9:2 16:9,24 
41:21 

court 1:1,12 3:9 

23:6 30:14 
31:1,1 54:20 
56:2 

concerns 23:20 
conclude 4:1 

22:21 

concluded 3:24 

8:15 37:16 
concluding 

39:20 

concrete 20:21 
condition 28:5 
conduct 30:4 
Cone 1:3 3:4 
13:10 16:15 
33:13 43:15 
57:7,18 

Cone's 4:20,24 
4:25 28:23,25 
57:10,10 

confessed 41:14 

confidence 26:7 

42:5 

51:5 

confinement 
53:23 54:11 

confirming 25:8 
conflict 23:10 
confused 41:3 
consequences 

24:4 

consider 19:25 
28:7,7,8 43:2 
56:12 

consideration 

15:8 

considering 

56:21 

consistent 26:6 
consistently 

constitutional 

46:12 

34:16 

constraint 22:15 

23:15,19 27:1 
27:8,11,11 
28:20,21,22 
29:15,22,24,24 
30:1 33:8 
35:22 41:11,12 
41:16 42:1,11 
42:16 43:1,5,7 
43:8,9,12,15 
43:16,23 44:2 
44:3,5,9,9,14 
44:19,21 45:10 
45:11,13,24 
46:2,16 47:7 
47:18,19,23 
48:1,13,15,15 
49:7,8,22,24 
50:2,23,23 
51:1,1,3,21 
53:5,18,19 
54:13,16,20 
55:2,5,8,9,14 
55:22 56:7,11 
courts 3:19 11:6 
12:4,5,6,20,21 
14:6,11,21 
17:9 18:7 
19:10,13 23:21 
40:8,9,11,15 
40:18 42:23 
45:18 46:1,6 
47:6 55:25 
court's 18:10 
29:2 30:14 
37:3 42:13,13 
47:14 48:9 
50:21 54:18 
56:2 

48:1 49:8,22 

cross 31:8 
cross-examina... 

30:23 40:2 

cross-examine 

cross-examined 

33:12 

39:16 

cumulated 51:3 
cumulative 
18:25 33:9 
50:17 
D

D 3:1
dangerous

31:24 32:19

day 12:10 24:11 

25:11 28:25
31:23,23 32:3 
33:1 50:1

days 33:15,17

47:13

dazed 19:1
dealer 24:7

26:13 39:3,12
51:10

dealing 26:16

39:6

dealt 55:23
death 10:5 27:23 

52:17 53:22
54:2,10

debate 14:8
December 1:9
decide 8:24 9:20 

14:15,20,21
26:24 35:25
40:12

decided 6:15,16

9:14 11:6,14
11:14,14 29:15 
40:9,11,18,19
40:20 42:15
43:24 44:3,11
44:12,17 46:5 

decides 17:2

27:12 

deciding 4:15 
5:11,17 6:24 
8:6,12 22:15 
35:22 

decision 4:19 

30:9 36:4 
42:11,20 43:8 
43:9,10 45:10 
45:15,25 48:10 
48:11,12,17 
49:8 

default 4:8 

13:13 14:18 
15:19 16:9 
21:18 42:14,17
42:21 43:4 
48:9 49:12 
53:9 55:23 

defaulted 4:20 

4:24 20:9 
46:13 49:4,12
55:3 

defendant 3:15 

10:13 16:14 
23:25 28:1,3
31:10 36:13,22
37:1,12,16,24
38:5 39:2 
defendant's 
37:11 38:15 

defended 14:17 
defends 12:7 
defense 27:21 
28:1,10 31:6 
32:7 35:20,22
35:24 36:4,9
37:10 38:14 
41:9,14 52:3 

deference 19:12 
delayed 5:3 
deliberately

27:16,17 29:6 
39:4 

demonstrate 

47:6 

depend 13:22 

3:10,23,24 
4:14,18,21 
6:15,16,23 
7:25 8:2,2,23 
9:1,9,13,14,19 
10:17 11:16,18 
11:23 12:21,21 
13:11,16,17 
14:15,19,23,24 
15:8,11,12,14 
15:22,24 16:15  crime 9:24 10:1 
16:16,21 17:2 
17:2,4,23 19:9 
19:23 20:2,6 
20:12,13,15,18  Criminal 15:23 
20:19,22 21:4 
21:13,13,15,19 
21:24 22:11,13 
22:21,21,25 

16:21 17:2 
42:12 43:8 
45:10,24 46:2 
46:16 47:19,23 

10:20 31:23 
38:21 

crimes 3:15 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Deputy 1:17 
described 6:22 
9:4 32:2 33:7 

descriptions 

32:4 

despite 40:21 
detail 50:6 51:2 

55:14 

55:17 57:12 
discuss 49:19 

55:8 56:13,24 

discussed 5:5 
8:14 45:21 
48:18 50:16,17 
55:13 

discussion 21:8 

21:14 50:6 
56:14 57:3 

determination 
14:18 45:22 
48:14,18 49:9 
determine 19:2 
determined 12:7  dismissal 53:16 
dismissed 21:2 
19:24 42:3 
43:3 48:4 49:4  disorder 24:3 
49:5,7 55:3 
28:12 31:4 
determining 7:2  dispose 54:13 
dicta 8:20 
disposed 18:14 
dictum 8:15 
14:7 15:1 

dispute 41:8,10 

19:17,18 

difference 24:15  dissent 20:14 
dissenting 5:6 

29:20 

enter 14:7 
entire 16:24 
38:14 47:15 
54:3 

24:3,7,7,12 
25:1,24 26:5 
26:13,13 31:10  entitled 6:10 
31:25 32:16,23 
18:21 55:20 
equally 40:6 
32:24 33:14 
err 35:8,12 
37:2,2,4,11,17 
38:18,18,20,22  erroneously 
39:3,3,10,12 
39:18 50:8,9 
51:9,10,11,21 
51:23,23 52:4 
52:5 55:13 
57:7,8,20 
drugs 24:14 

errors 13:19 
14:2 27:10 

error 15:15 

42:1 

41:15,25 42:4 
42:17 

25:3,25 26:7 
28:1 31:14,16 
31:20 32:12 
33:17 39:5,23 
51:16 52:21,21 
57:10 

drunk 25:9,18 

especially 29:25 
ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 

2:5,8 

establish 41:20 
ethical 33:25 

34:10,12 
ethics 30:4 
evaluate 19:10 

26:22,22 
event 53:15 
events 5:5 15:15 

56:15 57:8,11 
57:14 

evident 48:22 
evidentiary 

14:12 15:14 
27:2,12 55:20 

exactly 12:17 
26:2 32:17 
39:11 44:16 
52:17 

examination 

20:16 

examined 33:18 
example 44:11 
exclude 34:23 
excluded 33:8 

33:11 

exercise 4:7 
exhausted 19:3 
exhaustion 

20:18 

exist 14:2 
experience 7:1 
expert 26:4 31:5 

31:20 39:17 
57:9 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

disclosure 46:24  dropped 53:13 
drug 3:15 18:22 
discredited 

different 14:1,9 

19:14 45:25 
47:20 56:9,12 
difficult 30:10 
difficulty 12:19 
dilemma 5:10 
5:16,20 6:22 
8:5 20:23 
53:10,11 54:12 
direct 33:4 40:3 

41:24 42:3 
57:8 

directing 9:2 
direction 57:16 
directly 15:5 
disagree 5:23 
13:6 42:25 
51:5 

45:23 

E

28:4 

duty 23:22 

33:25 34:10 

distinct 8:17 
distinguish 24:9  due 46:4 
district 3:23 
6:15 12:21 
15:8,12 18:10  D.C 1:8,15 
20:6 21:13,15 
21:23 27:8,11 
28:22 29:15,24 
30:1 41:11 
42:12 43:9,12 
43:15,23 44:2 
44:2 45:13 
46:21 48:8,9 
49:24 50:2,21 
50:22,23 53:4 
53:19 

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 16:1,13
40:14 48:20
51:12,18
effect 34:24

50:17

disavowals 

disturb 4:19 
doctrine 6:19 
document 6:7 
disavowed 4:14  documents 5:5 
26:17 56:23 

5:11 8:12 

22:24 

disavowing 8:22  doing 22:24 
doubt 26:1 
drag 12:17 

disclaims 8:23 

22:12 

effectively 23:24
eight 33:17
eight-day 33:21
either 7:8 9:2 
16:12 46:13

elaborated 16:8
encompassed

4:5,11 6:21 7:2 
7:22 9:4 13:7 
14:4 23:2

encourage 22:18

37:15 

experts 24:1,6 
26:12 52:1,2 
55:16 

explain 4:12 

5:23 8:5 14:8 
17:11 20:24 
38:12 

explained 6:18 
15:11 22:16 
24:2 47:3 
52:19 

eventually 52:6 
evidence 3:12 
6:11 10:21 
12:2 14:9 
18:22 19:15 
25:1,24 26:5 
26:11 27:5,15 
29:3,5,6,14 
30:12,17 31:7 
31:19,22,25 
32:13,14 34:25  explaining
35:24 36:5,7 
36:12,12,17,18  explains 8:1 
36:23 37:1,7 
37:14,18,23 
38:4,17,19 
50:5,10,11 
51:20,23 52:11 
explicitly 45:18 
53:2 54:15 
55:11,12 56:12  expressed 5:18 

explanation 6:9 
29:10,10,11,12
46:3 47:12 
57:4 

22:20 

24:12 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

extent 48:18 

F 

faced 5:10,16 
6:23 53:11 

fact 31:22 34:21 
35:15,17 37:13 
38:18 40:20,21 
42:17 46:4 
49:10 51:22 

facts 46:22 
factual 26:16 

42:22 

fact-bound 

13:23,23 14:13 
14:21 54:19 
fact-specific 

failed 47:6 48:2 

7:13 

49:13 

fair 9:10,16 

11:25 23:12 
27:3,9 

fairly 4:10 6:21 
7:2,22 9:3 13:7 
16:21 23:23 
53:7,14 

fairness 27:6 
falls 36:15 
familiar 40:16 
favor 38:5 
favorable 36:13 

36:22 37:24 
38:4 

FBI 24:9 26:9 
26:20 32:1 
56:16 

fed 52:14 
federal 6:10 
11:6 12:20 
20:6,13,17 
21:6 42:23 
43:4 

federalism 5:3,4 
file 10:18 17:5 

18:21,25 19:15 
41:19 46:21 

filed 47:13 
files 3:13 11:2 
19:18 24:8 
26:12 31:22,25 
46:21,24 47:17 
47:24 56:16 

final 11:22 
finally 11:21 
find 4:23 8:8 

56:12 

four-day 33:21 
framing 22:16 
frenzied 25:15 

25:22 32:3 

friendly 21:22 

21:25 22:7 
frightened 

52:25 

18:24,25 19:11 
42:21 

front 5:24 8:4 
frustration 

finder 34:21 

35:15,17 

finding 21:18 
29:8,13,22 
30:15 48:13 
49:9,20 53:4 
finish 7:18 8:25 
first 3:11 4:5,22 
11:14,24 12:1 
13:25 14:5 
15:9 16:24 
18:12 19:13 
22:20 25:6,18 
26:8 27:1 30:3 
40:11,15,24 
42:24 43:14,18 
44:24 45:6 
46:5,19,25 
47:15 48:6 
55:10 57:4 
Florida 24:12 

Flynn 31:15 

25:14 

33:23 

focused 13:24 

33:3 

follow 38:9 

44:15 

follows 54:25 
footnote 8:1,7,9 
8:10,25 18:10 
20:24 22:17 
27:7 53:13 

found 3:18 26:5 

41:12 57:10 

four 14:9 33:15 

11:10 

fulfill 23:22 
full 4:23 12:11 
fully 16:8 18:8 
function 30:6 
further 47:12 

53:18 

furthering 

35:19 
G

G 3:1
GARY 1:3
gate 34:20
General 1:18
generally 57:6
getting 36:23
44:24 45:7
52:13,14,14
54:23 56:4

Ginsburg 11:13

17:19 18:17
20:4 24:18,21
27:25 38:25
46:18

give 6:8 16:22 

25:17 26:8

given 14:25 27:4 

36:8 37:13
giving 17:17
glad 7:20
go 5:23 9:8 10:9 

12:9,25 33:2 
44:1 52:10
56:15

goal 33:3 

goes 26:12 57:4 
going 5:9,9 6:20 
8:8 9:23 36:7 
52:22 

46:12,21,22 
48:7 

hand 5:11 49:17 

49:19 52:1 
54:13,17

41:13 

happen 3:25 8:5 

happened 41:4 

happening 25:4 
happens 57:3 
hard 27:9 29:19 

15:12 20:23 
47:5 

Goldstein 1:15 
2:3,8 3:5,6,8 
4:3 5:8,22 6:6 
6:17 7:9,17 
8:10,21 9:15 
9:25 10:3,6,11 
10:14,19,24 
11:1,8,19 
12:14 13:5,15 
13:25 15:10,20 
16:6,14 17:14  Harris 21:3 
headings 7:3 
17:22 19:4,7 
20:20 21:16,25  hear 3:3 
22:4,7,10 
23:11 24:21 
26:1,18,25 
27:17 28:9 
54:5,6,8 56:10  heart 27:19 
56:22 57:2,15 
57:21,23,24 
58:2,6 

heavy 24:3,12
heightened

heard 32:3 57:7 
hearing 14:12 
15:14 27:2,13
55:21 

56:14 

53:25 

good 12:22 

49:15 

goodness 43:18 
government 

32:6 

go-around 

19:13 

granted 11:1 

23:4,16 

granting 7:3 
gray 35:24 
ground 13:8 
15:16 40:19 
42:15,20 

held 43:16 44:2 

44:3,7 48:1 
herring 45:23 
hidden 23:14 
high 25:9,18
26:6 28:1 

highlight 47:11 
history 54:16 
hold 8:19 14:12 
holding 4:8 8:22 

13:2 14:7,16
15:1 44:17 
48:5,5,20
49:10,10

grounds 40:23 

holdings 8:19 
holds 44:18 
guess 6:13 12:12  home 52:13 

55:6 

16:22 

guy's 39:12 

H

habeas 6:10,14

honest 22:8 30:8 
Honor 29:7 
30:13 32:9 
36:20 39:15 
41:6 45:6 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

14:10 15:15 
27:2 50:18 
55:19 58:1 

22:2,5,13 23:5  know 3:25 18:3 
24:8,18,21 
20:20 21:11 
25:17 26:15,21 
25:17 39:18 
26:25 27:7,14 
40:16,25 44:11 
27:25 28:15,19 
53:23,24 54:2 
29:4,9,17 30:2  knowing 40:24 
30:25 32:15,19  knows 36:8 
33:6,7,24 34:4  Kyles 13:20 
34:9,18,23 
35:5,10,12,18 
35:19 36:10,18 
36:21,23 37:5 
37:6,21 38:3,8 
38:25 39:16,25
42:10 43:17 
44:6,8,16,22
45:4 46:3,9,18
49:1 50:13 
51:8 53:20 
54:4,9,10 56:6 
56:10,20,25
57:13,19,22,25
58:3,4,7

L 1:17 2:5 28:17 
laboring 20:7
language 8:13
11:23 22:18
46:4

Laughter 22:9
law 14:14 29:16 

41:3,17 48:3 
48:17

lawyer 32:5,6

L

Official - Subject to Final Review 

item 50:5 
items 30:21 

50:14,23 51:3 

J

JENNIFER

1:17 2:5 28:17 
jewelry 25:12,20
Johnson 54:23
judge 20:14 21:6 

21:6,7 40:18 
judged 47:21
judgment 11:22
34:19,25 35:4 
35:6,14,19 
36:7,14,16 
47:18 53:15,19 
54:21 56:3 
judgments 

35:15 

36:1 

12:23 

jurisprudence 

jurisprudential 

juror 26:4 
jurors 57:6 
jury 25:3 26:13 
28:2 33:1 37:1 
37:9 38:2 39:9 
39:12 50:7 
51:16 

46:11 51:17 
54:3 

honorable 28:12 
hopefully 16:22 
horribly 18:4 
huge 39:5 
hundred 47:9 
hypothetical 

24:9 

I 

idea 14:17 26:6 
identifies 9:9 
identify 9:18 

14:5 55:9 
Ilene 30:19 
immaterial 34:3 

34:8 41:12 
immediately 

11:2 12:5 
25:12 

immunized 23:1 
importance 30:5 
important 3:13 

7:21 28:10 
30:12 

importantly 

29:2 

impossible 

43:18 

impression 

39:21 

improperly 

43:16 

inclined 25:21 
included 3:22 

including 4:12 

53:7 

57:9 

inconsistent 
40:10 41:3 
49:16,21 

inconsistently 

incorrectly 51:6 

14:10 

55:18 

independent 

42:19 

indicate 10:17 
indicated 20:15 
indicating 51:20 
individual 30:21 

31:3 

individual's 

52:13 

inexplicably 

18:3 

influence 25:25 

33:17 51:25 
information 
18:25 19:1 
32:7 40:2 
initial 18:20 

36:6,11 

initially 35:18 
injected 45:23 
insanity 27:22 
Insofar 16:14 
instance 15:9 

42:16 

institutional 

insufficiently 

56:2 

17:5 

intended 48:19 
interesting 5:4 
interests 56:2 
interminably

introduced 33:9 

12:17 

51:13 

irrational 38:11 
irrelevant 33:8 
isolated 50:16 
issue 3:14 6:20 

8:16 9:2,12
12:18 13:13,24
15:19 20:3,8
23:1,10 24:3 
34:21 39:22,24
42:23 53:8 
issues 4:4 5:3 
7:11,15,16
9:20 42:14 

Justice's 53:6 
justified 48:8 
justifies 53:15 
justify 14:24 

K

keeping 34:20 
Kelly 19:8 

justice 3:3,9,20  Kennedy 8:8 
10:16,22,25 
11:5 12:5 
18:18 19:5 
24:9 33:6,24 
35:18 53:20 
54:10 

4:3 5:1,8,19,22 
6:1,6,13,17 7:7 
7:10,17 8:8,18 
9:10,22 10:1,4 
10:9,12,16,20 
10:22,25 11:3 
11:5,9,13,15 
11:19,23 12:5 
key 26:18 
12:12,15 13:6 
killer 39:8 
13:12,21 14:1 
killings 25:6,13 
15:4,18,21 
16:11,20 17:12  kind 22:6 35:4 
17:16,19,20 
55:15 56:15 
18:17,18 19:5 
20:4 21:10,21 

Kennedy's 

11:20 

32:7 

knew 27:20 32:6 

40:7

lay 7:25
learn 37:14
learns 46:19
leave 14:20
leaves 35:14,19
leaving 40:5
left 35:16 55:25 
legal 13:19 14:6 

14:20 27:10
34:6

legitimate 47:10
let's 6:1,7,7

18:19 31:11,15
31:17 44:1

level 53:25 54:1 

54:2

lick 17:17
light 15:23

28:25 46:19
56:3

Likewise 42:1
limitations 21:2
limited 14:20

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

line 39:9 47:5 

litigation 16:25 

52:8 

45:9 

long 9:1,22 

34:1,2,3,11,14  minutes 54:5 
34:15 35:1,23  misapprehens... 
36:8 37:20 
41:8,10,11 
50:15 

20:7 

11:10,11 12:4  materiality 
16:24 

longer 12:7 
look 9:11 16:16 

34:19,21 35:14  mistakes 14:6 
35:14 37:22 
50:4 53:5 

misunderstood 

55:9 

20:5 40:8 42:8  opportunity 
42:8 47:18,22 
20:25 49:14 
opposite 41:1 
49:6 

misstated 54:16  new 18:25 
mistake 30:8 
news 57:6 
nicety 12:19 
non-pejorative 

41:22 

23:7 

normally 7:14 
note 43:14 51:7 
noted 30:18 37:4 

9:17 55:15 

mitigating 28:7 
51:18,21,22 
36:12,19 37:14 
37:17,23 38:13  notion 45:21 

57:16 

opposition 9:6 
oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 

28:17 

order 7:20 39:17 
oriented 33:4 
ought 20:15 

outcome 4:9 

27:5


45:5


mitigation 27:22  notwithstandi...  outside 53:20 
overarching 
48:5 56:19


22:23 

38:15 

novel 49:18 
number 28:21 
numerous 26:16  overpowered 

overlooked 32:8 

modify 48:19 
moment 36:24 

57:23 

18:2 20:12 
21:10 25:19,21 
27:9,10 31:13

31:16 32:25 
33:1,2 36:17

36:17 43:10 
44:14 45:15 
50:20,24,25

52:7,9,9 

materials 12:10 

20:12 29:16 
51:4 

matter 1:11 

27:18 29:16 
34:6,16 40:8 
44:10 48:3 
58:10 

mattered 55:12 

57:10 

looked 7:1 24:19  matters 35:9,13  months 19:22 
mother 32:13 

looking 25:15,22 
looks 25:15 
lot 17:25 27:5 
40:17 55:12 

24:19,20 25:13  mean 11:15 
17:16 28:2 
29:24,25 43:7 
39:6 44:12,12  mouth 32:14 
51:1 
53:3 57:12 
mouths 38:23 
murder 29:1 
33:18 38:16 
39:23 52:10,23 
murders 25:7,23

32:20 33:1,16 
33:22 50:12 

23:21 29:2 
42:13,23 44:14

45:11 55:25 

measure 34:20 
mentioned 

16:11 19:19 
47:16,23 

lower 14:6,11,21 

mentions 42:8 
merit 57:17 
merits 3:22,25 
4:6,15 5:15,21 
6:3,15,16 7:5,5 
7:13 8:1,6,13
9:7,13,21
13:17,20 14:19 
15:3,8 18:14 
19:10,25 21:9 
21:14,23 22:15 
22:22,24 23:22 
24:22 28:24 
45:1 53:8 
55:11,24 56:8 
Merritt 20:14 
mind 32:10 33:3 
38:15,20 50:11 
50:12 52:11 
53:2 

minimum 53:16 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
narrowly 15:7 
Nashville 1:18 
necessarily 

13:23 

need 5:3 34:7 
needle 33:19 
51:14 57:18 

needs 15:13 

54:13 

negligently 

27:16 

neither 8:20 
net 22:6 
never 16:25 17:8 

M 

maintained 

46:12 

49:23 

39:18 

25:22 

making 49:8,16 

man 32:1 39:5,7 

manner 25:16 

marks 33:19 
51:14 57:18 

Maryland 6:12 
material 5:7 
6:11 11:17 
12:2 13:4 
19:11 33:7 

28:6 

overstated 

39:15 51:18 

owe 19:12 
P

O
O 2:1 3:1 
objection 23:9
objections 6:4 
objective 47:22 
obligation 36:11  P 3:1 
observations 
23:21 33:21 

page 2:2 4:16 

observed 33:15 
obviously 36:6 
occurred 46:24 
offer 35:22 
officer 25:14 

31:12 

oh 10:22 19:24 

40:21 58:4 

okay 7:7 31:17 

44:8 58:5 
old 10:12,14 

12:24 

opinion 5:6 8:23 

11:24 12:1 
18:11,12,12 
22:14 37:3 
43:23 45:20,23 
46:4 50:4,21 
50:25 55:22 
57:1,1,3,9 

5:2,25 6:2 7:4 
8:7,10 9:8 
11:16 20:24 
22:20 43:11
45:15 55:1 
56:22

pages 15:12
48:22 58:5

paint 39:4
panel 8:7,12
paragraph 4:23

5:14 16:15
19:20,21 22:19 
40:13 41:22
42:2,2 43:19 
43:22

paragraphs 

5:13

paranoid 24:5
part 18:21 40:5 
particular 7:24

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

16:19 

particularly 
12:23 26:8 

parties 8:3 9:3 

23:3 46:1 

phase 24:16 
photo 57:15 
photographic 

57:11,13 

physically 52:16 

post 28:11 31:3 

41:15 

43:3 48:4 49:3  prosecution 
49:5,6 55:3 

post-conviction  principal 16:12 

3:12 26:3,11 
29:19 35:6 
39:22 

42:7 

19:21 42:4 
49:18 

53:1 

parts 41:22 47:9 
passed 45:1 55:4  picture 57:17 
passing 23:21 
29:23 50:3 
55:15 56:14 

piece 13:7 34:24  power 8:24 
pitfalls 54:23 
place 7:24 27:12  precede 25:5 

22:12 

post-traumatic 

24:2 

pejorative 23:12 
penalty 27:23 
pending 11:6 

20:18 

people 37:14 
perfectly 9:16 
11:10 14:15 
perform 30:6 
period 54:3 
permissible 8:16 
person 28:4 

51:16 

personal 47:21 
persuasive 

56:17 

40:24 

21:12 

predecessor 

preceded 25:12 
precedent 54:22 
plainly 45:17 
please 3:9 28:20  preceding 15:12 
plus 18:25 
point 5:9 7:24 
predicate 53:9 
14:5 15:15 
16:19,20 17:23  preempt 35:21 
prefer 20:21,22 
17:24 18:2 
21:22 27:2,3,4 
29:25,25 30:18  prejudice 26:22 
31:10,19 33:21  premise 45:9 
33:22 35:20 
37:6,22 42:5 
44:23 49:7 
50:1 51:15,19 
52:5 55:19 
56:11,19 57:4 
57:11,18 

present 7:5 19:9 

20:23 

petition 4:16 
5:10,16,24 
6:19 7:1,19 
8:11 9:5 22:17  pointed 11:23 
23:14 43:11 
46:14,22 47:2 
48:23 55:1 
58:1 

12:13 14:13 
16:22 26:25 
50:4 55:25 
57:16 

petitioner 1:4,16 

points 7:21 

2:4 3:7,18 6:10  police 24:10 
25:14 26:9,19 
15:25 18:6 
19:19 25:8,13 
50:7 56:16 
30:17,22 32:12  portion 39:15 
portray 39:7 
41:18,20 42:6

43:13 44:19,20  position 15:22 
44:23 45:7,8 
48:1 49:6 54:7  positions 40:11 

48:7 

45:13 

21:17 22:10 
presented 3:18 
3:23 4:6,11,13 
5:21 6:2,8,9,22  proceeding 
7:23 8:17 9:19 
12:4 13:24 
17:25 18:6,8 
22:16 23:2,9 
38:21 46:14 
48:25 49:22 
53:12,12,14 

46:25 

16:3 

proceedings 

presenting 

46:15 48:12 
presents 43:7 
proof 51:22 
preserved 16:21  proper 27:12 

10:5 

presumption 

17:5 

48:2 

pretty 25:19 

40:16 

35:6


properly 15:7 
22:25 23:3 
47:7 

proposal 20:4 

41:2 

Petitioners 2:9 
Petitioner's 8:13  possession 36:5 
possibility 55:20 
possible 23:17 
possibly 47:2 

8:15 22:22 
53:10 

petitions 41:19 

previous 14:18 

20:21 

45:21 48:14,18  propose 20:17 
49:9 

proposing 20:11 

previously 12:7  proposition 

19:24 42:3,15 

42:25 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

principles 48:17  prosecutor 30:4 
prior 16:3 
30:11 31:8,11 
probably 35:7 
31:19 33:25 
problem 21:7 
35:8,17,21 
procedural 4:8 
36:6 39:1,1,2,4 
39:7,11,14 
6:4 7:4,11,15 
41:20 51:9,18 
7:15 9:12,12 
9:21 12:18,19 
52:6 55:16 
13:13,24 14:16  prosecutors 
14:16,18,25 
30:6 35:3 
15:19 16:9 
21:18 22:6 
23:9,10 41:14 
42:14,16,21 
43:4 54:16 
55:6,23 

32:10 36:10,13 
36:16 47:17,24 

prosecutor's 

prove 35:1 

57:19 

prudent 35:8 
psychosis 3:16 

procedurally 
4:20,24 55:2 

procedures 45:5 
proceeded 45:9 

processed 31:15  purposeful 33:4 
profession 30:5 
purposes 38:15 
program 30:10 
put 15:21 28:5 
promise 17:17 
pronounced 

56:9 

24:1 28:11 
51:25 

public 30:6 
purely 50:16 
purport 23:15 
purportedly 

23:9 

purpose 52:13 

p.m 58:9 
Q

quantity 39:5 
question 3:23 
4:5,6,7,11,13
5:21 6:8,9,20
6:21 7:5,8,12 
7:18,22,23 
8:14,17 9:4,9 
9:14,16,18,19 
9:21,21 11:9 
11:20 13:23
14:3,16,19,25

reaching 7:14 
react 28:3 
read 22:18 

39:20 41:22 
42:10,11 43:8 
43:10,12,13 
48:12 49:8 
reading 46:1 
real 25:10 

15:18 16:20 
19:8,12 21:22 
22:1,8,11,16 
23:18,25 24:25 
26:3,16 27:15 
30:23 32:11 
34:4,9,10 
37:15 38:3,14 
38:22 41:6,6,8 
42:25 48:13,25  really 9:1 13:9 
49:1,2 50:9,10 
23:20 24:15 
51:19 52:4,22 
27:8 30:11 
53:8,9,12 
39:18 49:25 
50:8 52:5 
53:21 

reason 9:11 

11:16 12:16 
16:1,13 17:10 
23:24 34:16 
38:7,13 49:12 
52:23 

reasons 7:3 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

42:14 

related 12:16 
relatively 37:15 
relevance 35:11 
relevant 25:2 
29:17 39:21 
41:8,9 53:21 

relied 45:18 
46:16 48:21 

relies 48:13 
rely 6:20 
relying 30:17 

37:10 

response 17:6 
45:22 49:1 
50:19 
rest 6:19 
rests 46:23 
result 49:3 
revealed 46:23 
reversal 15:16 
reverse 13:13 
reversed 13:1 

55:5 

review 6:10,14 

13:22 23:1 

remainder 

revisiting 48:16 
revolves 31:2 
27:13 28:14 
RICKY 1:6 
remand 13:14 
remanding 15:7  right 11:2,22 
remember 
13:2,5 18:6 
19:19,23 22:4 
25:7 26:17 
32:17 35:10 
44:4 47:1 

24:19 26:10 
reopen 21:4 
repeated 22:23 
reply 9:7,8 

questions 5:4 
6:2 8:3 12:13 
12:13 13:24 
14:14,20,22 
23:2 28:22 
30:3 53:12,18 

quick 27:14 
quickly 58:2 
quite 5:12,18 

8:1 11:22 
14:24 

quoted 8:14 
13:3 52:9 

R 

R 3:1 
rails 12:9 
raise 7:8 21:14 
40:23 41:19 
42:7 47:8 
57:25 

raised 4:4 7:11 
12:15 16:13 
40:8 41:23 
48:6 

raises 30:23 
raising 5:20 
12:18 16:1 
43:21 

ratified 42:12 
reach 9:2 
reached 13:17 

22:22 

reaches 42:8 

ruling 22:25 
45:14 47:14 
55:24 
run 21:2 
runaround 
44:24 45:8 

running 25:20 

S 
S 2:1 3:1 
safety 22:6 
sat 18:13 
Saturday 33:2 
saw 33:17 
saying 8:6 12:1 
18:5 21:5,7,15 
22:14 24:7,19 
26:7 31:24 
32:5 35:20 
40:11 44:23 
49:17 

says 5:14 6:9 

28:3 31:11,19 
38:20 39:2,10 
40:22 43:23 
49:19 50:18 
55:2 56:17 

Scalia 9:22 10:1 

10:4,9,12,20 
11:4,9 17:12 
17:16,20 25:17 
32:15,19 51:8 
57:13,19 

scenario 43:7 
second 3:17 17:1 

18:11 26:2 
27:3 47:1 
55:19 

section 22:14 

security 53:25 

23:13 

54:2 

2:7 54:6 

29:18 53:17 

rebut 48:2 
REBUTTAL 

16:12 20:24 
22:19 24:22 
reports 24:10 

robberies 25:5 
robbery 24:11 
25:5,7,12,20 
25:14 26:9,19  ROBERTS 3:3 
3:20 5:1,19 6:1 
6:13 7:7,10 
8:18 9:10 
12:12,15 13:21 
21:10,21 22:2 
22:5 23:5 
28:15 54:4 
56:6,20,25 
57:22,25 58:4 
58:7 

resemblance 

request 4:25 
required 34:16 
requirement 

received 15:24 
recognition 29:2 
recognize 27:25 
recognizing 9:3 
reconsider 4:25 
record 26:23 
reserve 28:14 
29:13 30:16 
32:13,14 38:23  resolve 7:12 
27:13 56:1 
49:5 51:20 
resolved 5:20 
53:20 
10:8 11:21 
15:7 28:23 

Roby 31:11,23 

49:23 

34:13 

33:12,14 56:16 
resolving 54:24  Roby's 33:12,14 
respect 4:12 

records 16:4 
red 45:23 
referred 40:13 

40:14 

reflect 45:12 
refuses 43:1 
regarding 15:2 

48:11 

reiterate 30:15 
reject 4:24 
rejected 28:23 

14:2 

Respondent 
1:19 28:18 
Respondents 

2:6 9:11 

responding 

41:21 

role 35:21 
Roman 6:2 
row 53:22 54:2 

54:10 

see 7:15 18:21 
31:12 39:25 
41:1 44:1,14 
58:4 

rule 30:5 42:17 
44:15,18 45:17 
45:19 
ruled 42:1 48:16  seller 32:24 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

send 20:5,25 
42:23 54:21 
55:9 

sending 56:3 
sense 20:10 

44:13 

sensible 14:24 
sent 4:1 15:2 
31:24 32:1 
sentence 4:23 
10:5 11:25 
12:1 13:3 15:6 
18:12 41:9 
43:14 44:10 
sentences 9:1 

18:11 

sentencing 

24:16 

separate 17:13 
separated 50:24 
separately 56:8 

56:13,21,23

series 26:19 
serious 18:7,15 

23:19 

service 28:12 
set 54:22 
sets 14:1 
shape 31:6 
shot 18:9 
show 39:17 
showed 38:23 

50:10 

shows 29:6 49:5 
side 35:8,13 

50:14 

sides 18:5 
signal 54:20 

56:3 

signals 15:2 
silos 14:9 56:9 
similar 19:8 
32:1 41:23 
simple 34:4 
simply 31:1 38:9 

55:23 

single 3:13 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

sir 8:11,21 11:8 

15:10 36:25 
situation 42:18 

36:10,18,21 
37:5,21 38:3,8 
40:1 50:13 

48:25 49:4 

Souter's 35:19 
speak 32:9 
specific 33:20 
specifically 

six 47:13 
sixth 8:5 13:17 
13:19 14:8,17 
15:1 18:13 
21:17,18 22:23 
27:6 28:22 
29:15,25 41:12 
45:12,14,16,21  Spell 46:18 
46:17 48:10,21  split 14:8 19:16 
50:25 51:6 
53:5,19 54:17 
55:18 

21:24 30:19 
32:25 37:10 
45:16 48:15 
50:3,3 52:12 

sponte 22:3 
squarely 53:11 
standard 47:22 

38:10 54:24,24  summarized 

statements 

24:10 26:19 
29:1 56:18 
States 1:1,12 
State's 32:18,22 
34:19,25 38:24 
46:24 

stating 50:7 
statute 21:2 
stay 20:17 
step 42:22 
STEVENS 

27:14 29:4,9 
29:17 30:2 
34:4,9 

36:23 

Sunday 33:2 
supported 52:3 
supports 53:4 
suppose 18:19 

52:16 

suppress 34:24 
suppressed 3:12 

6:11 10:21 
27:16,16,17 
29:6,14,18 
30:18 54:15 
suppression 
3:18 26:10 

Supreme 1:1,12 
17:1,4,23 21:4 

stood 45:25 
stop 5:1,9 
store 25:12,20 
stress 24:2 28:12  surrounding 

sure 10:8 30:6 

45:5 

Smith 1:17 2:5 
28:16,17,19 
29:7,12,21 
30:13 32:9,17 
32:21 33:10 
34:2,6,12,22 
35:3,7,11,16 
36:3,15,20,25 
37:19 38:1,6 
38:12 39:14 
41:5 42:24 
44:5,7,18 45:3 
45:6 46:8,11 
47:4 50:20 
51:17 53:24 

smuggled 23:8,8 
smuggling 8:3 

23:13 

solely 37:11 
solitary 53:22 

54:11 

somebody 39:5 
soon 3:17 10:6 
24:11 25:14 

sorry 10:11 

57:23 

sort 14:9 22:2 
34:20 53:25 
57:5 

Souter 34:18,23 

35:5,10,12 

50:18 54:1 
start 5:13 6:1 

24:23 

started 21:20 
starting 5:25 7:4 

7:25 

31:3 

strong 15:2 

34:3 

47:10 

58:8,10 

39:21 51:24 

subparts 41:22 

stuff 26:12 
sua 22:3 
subject 30:22 

starts 24:22 
state 3:19 6:11 
8:16 12:5,6,6 
12:20 13:19 
16:4,21,25 
subjective 47:22 
17:4,9 18:3,7 
19:10,13,23,23  submitted 31:18 
20:1,7,11,15 
20:18 21:1,1,3 
21:6 24:6 
32:10,11,23,24  substance 17:7 
substantial 45:2 
32:25 33:3,3 
33:13 38:15,20 
40:7,10,19 
41:1,3,15 
suffering 31:3 
42:16,20 43:1 
44:1,2,9 46:5,6  sufficient 15:16 
sufficiently 9:18 
46:8,11,14,22 
47:6,13 50:11 
50:12 52:2,11 
53:2 54:14,16 
56:4 57:16 

suggest 51:15 
suggesting 

successive 41:19 

26:23 

48:7 

16:8 

57:8 

stated 5:13 11:2 
statement 25:7 

26:8 29:23 

suggestion 

30:16 

suggests 56:8 

28:25


suspect 51:11 
Swanson 40:22 
synonym 23:7 
system 20:22 

T

T 2:1,1
table 29:5 
tactical 29:11,18 

30:9,10 

take 4:15 6:18 

7:14 9:12
11:11 17:3
18:23 27:8 
56:22,23

taken 40:10 
talk 5:18 6:7 
31:11,15,17 

talked 6:24 19:5 

27:7 55:10 
talking 5:2,14

24:25 

target 28:13 
teletypes 24:10

26:9 50:7
56:16

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

treatment 42:13 

51:4 

undermine 51:4  views 15:2 

understand 16:7 

6:12 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

40:7 

56:1 

unapologetic 

top 4:18 24:23 
town 52:14 
trained 32:6 
traumatic 28:11  uncontested 

unaware 34:12 

54:14 

31:3 

traveling 30:22 
treat 57:5 
treated 50:23 

51:6 56:8 

56:7 

trial 3:12 23:24 

31:2 33:8 
40:11 42:1 
43:1 44:5 
47:18 55:12 

39:7 57:19 
troubles 30:3 
true 12:8 
try 21:17 
trying 4:17 9:17 

3:11,21 11:3 

undefended 
13:18 21:19 
55:23 

17:16 24:4 
30:14 36:1 
47:4 53:10 

understandable 

7:22 11:11 

21:8 

understood 
15:25 16:4 
undisputed 

unfortunately 

42:17 

11:25 

tried 23:17 39:4  understanding 

34:11,13 57:5 

turn 33:25 34:7  United 1:1,12

urging 19:23 
use 31:10 36:5 
37:11 38:20 
51:16 52:21 

turning 23:18 

turned 27:19 

55:16 

35:8,13 

turns 56:18 
twice 20:8 28:23 

40:7 56:11 

two 3:10 7:2 9:1 
14:1,20 16:22 
18:11 24:1 
25:5,23 26:25 
31:5,20,20 
39:17 51:25 
52:2 57:9 

U 
Uh 19:4 
ultimate 4:9 
ultimately 35:15 

35:16 36:4 

useful 40:2 
user 18:23 24:7 

24:13 25:2 
26:14 31:25 
32:16,23 33:14 
37:2,17 38:18 
38:19,22 39:3 
39:10,18 50:8 
50:9 51:10,11 
51:21,23 52:5

52:5 55:13 
57:7,8,20

usually 54:18 
utterly 38:11 

V 

v 1:5 3:4 6:12 

14:10 19:8 
21:3 50:18


valid 16:1 
various 50:4,14 
verdict 51:5 
versus 32:24 
Vietnam 28:12 

37:3 

view 9:14 27:15 

violation 3:25 

vision 39:8 
voluntary 28:6 

W

waived 40:21 

43:16,24 44:4 
44:12 46:7,13
47:2

waiver 43:9,10 

43:12,13,17,19 
45:11,14,17,19 
46:10,16,18 
47:12,20,21 
48:2,22,24
49:10,16 

waiving 43:20 
wake 40:20 
walk 4:17 
want 7:24 10:9 
12:3 20:5 21:5 
21:7,19 41:5 

wanted 31:6

39:11 

wants 18:8 
WARDEN 1:6 
Washington 1:8

1:15 

wasn't 6:23 8:6 

11:14 12:8
16:13 19:16
21:25 22:2,7 
30:18 40:20
45:20 47:3 
50:9 57:19

way 17:10 48:19 

tell 18:18,19 
23:15 39:12 
40:15,17 44:24

44:25 45:1 
56:14 58:2 

tells 39:2 
tend 25:19 
tendency 37:25 

38:4 

tends 36:12 
Tenn 1:18 
Tennessee 10:17 
15:22 17:1,2,3 
17:23 21:3 
40:22 41:17 
45:10,17,18 

term 48:7 
terms 41:14 

50:17 
test 19:2 
testified 52:1 
testimony 26:4 
31:9 33:13,14 
33:20 

text 4:12 6:8 
Thank 3:8 28:15 

54:4,8 57:21

57:22 58:6,7 
theories 49:21 
theory 16:9 38:6 

46:6 47:20 
49:21 
thin 21:9 
thing 3:21 5:14 
12:8 18:5 30:8 
41:7 44:13,25 

things 3:10 

12:17 54:19 

29:7,23 33:6 
33:10,11,24 
34:2,6,13,15 
34:22 35:3,5,7 
36:3,3,15,16 
36:21,22 37:6 
37:19 38:1 
39:14 40:3 
41:11 43:6,18 
44:2,18,22 
45:7,22 47:4 
48:7,14,19,24 
49:2 50:20,25 
51:2,17,18,20 
52:6 53:1,3,7 
53:11,14 54:12 
54:19 55:11,14 
55:17,22 

thinking 23:16 
third 3:21 55:19 
THOMAS 1:15 
2:3,8 3:6 54:6 

three 17:25 
18:11 32:2 
40:3 54:5 
55:25 

time 11:15,18 

12:16,19 13:8 
16:2,3 19:15 
19:16,17 25:4 
28:14 32:10 
33:15 35:4 
38:16,21 39:23 
41:18 46:19 
47:15 50:11,12 
52:22 53:2 

think 3:11 4:10 
8:22 14:2,5,10 
14:11,23 15:13

15:17 17:9,14 
18:2 19:7 20:2 
20:13,21,21,22 
22:11 23:11,20  Todds 52:15,24 
told 12:6 16:15

25:2,19,21,23 
31:10 39:19 
27:3,9 28:10


timeliness 11:9 
times 37:14 
today 46:15 

52:24 

thought 6:12 
10:22 13:12 
12:9 51:15 
20:8,15 29:19  Tuesday 1:9 
30:11 40:13 

69 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

50:22 

weak 14:25 
weeds 54:18 

56:5 

weird 24:19 

25:10 

went 3:13 11:4 

24:6 50:6 
52:12 55:24 
weren't 19:16 
We'll 3:3 
we're 13:1 21:5 

21:6 22:14 
24:25 26:16 
55:20 

whatsoever 

47:24 

whichever 7:20 
Whitley 14:11 

50:18 

wild-eyed 24:20 

25:13,19 

win 9:13 
window 20:25 
withheld 5:6 
witness 24:10,13 

writes 44:9 
writing 5:16 

46:10 

written 40:17 
wrong 14:11 
21:15 36:2 
55:4 

wrote 5:10 

43:19 

X 

x 1:2,7 
xi 6:2 

Y 

years 10:2,7,14 

10:20 12:24 
yellow 24:22 

0 

07-1114 1:5 3:4 

1 
1 48:13,25 
11:08 1:13 3:2 
112-A 43:11 
12 10:20 
12:07 58:9 
1980 9:25,25 
10:2 25:4 
1984 53:22 
1992 10:24,25 

24a 4:17,22 55:1 
25a 5:2 11:16 

57:3 

26 5:25 7:4,25 
12:24 20:24 

28 2:6 10:2 

3 

3 2:4 20:24 
30 8:10 58:5 
32 58:5 
35 16:15 19:20 

41:22 42:2 

4 

4 9:8 13:10 

22:20 

41 16:16 19:21 

40:13 42:2 
43:19 

41-page 47:13 

5 

5 13:10 
50 10:14 
52 17:19,20,21 
54 2:9 
57a 56:22 
6 

6 8:1,7,9,10 
62 45:15 48:22 
62-A 45:15 
63a 48:23 
63-A 45:15 

24:14 25:9 
26:18 30:19 
38:24 51:13 
54:23,24 56:18 
witnesses 24:19 
31:5,21 32:2 
32:22 37:9,10 
39:17 40:4 
57:9 
2 
wondering 30:7  2 53:13 
Woodall 10:19 
19:18 

11:1 

1993 40:25 

words 40:17 
43:19 46:25 
53:3 

48:11,15,15
51:1 57:1,2 

worry 40:18 
wouldn't 4:8 
35:12,12 37:13  2008 1:9 
37:17 40:1,16 
21 24:23 
42:18,22 56:17  22 24:24 55:1 
writ 7:3 

22a 4:16,19 

2000 10:23 
2001 11:7 45:14  81 17:13,18

8 
80 41:21 

48:9,21 56:25 

2002 37:3 
2007 45:20 

9 

9 1:9 

70 

Alderson Reporting Company 

