Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
KANSAS, 
:
                         
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 07-1356 
                       
DONNIE RAY VENTRIS. 
: 
             
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Wednesday, January 21, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 11:15 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
STEPHEN R. McCALLISTER, ESQ., Solicitor General,

 Topeka, Kan., on behalf of the Petitioner. 

NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor

 General, Department of Justice, Washington,
 D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Petitioner. 

MATTHEW J. EDGE, ESQ., Assistant Appellate Defender,

 Topeka, Kan,; on behalf of the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
STEPHEN R. McCALLISTER, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.


 On behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Petitioner 

              

14


MATTHEW J. EDGE, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                   

24


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

STEPHEN R. McCALLISTER, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

38


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (11:15 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument next in Case 07-1356, Kansas v. Ventris.

 General McAllister.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN R. McALLISTER

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. McALLISTER:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may 

it please the Court:

 The Court has always held that the 

defendant's voluntary statements obtained in violation 
of constitutional standards may be used for impeachment 
purposes when the defendant testifies at trial.

 The Court has excluded statements for all 
purposes only when they are involuntary or have been 
compelled.  The question in this case is whether 
voluntary statements obtained in violation of the rule 
of Massiah v. United States should be treated 
differently than all other voluntary statements.

 The answer is "no" for at least three 
reasons.  First, permitting the impeachment use of 
voluntary statements obtained in violation of 
constitutional standards is necessary to prevent perjury 
by criminal defendants.

 Second, in terms of the effect at trial, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there is no basis for distinguishing a voluntary 
statement obtained in violation of the Massiah rule from 
Fourth Amendment violations, Miranda violations, or 
violations of the rule of Michigan v. Jackson.

 In all of those situations the resulting 

evidence may limit defense counsel's options at trial, 
but there is no basis in that respect for distinguishing 
a Massiah violation.  It has no different effect than 
those others.  Also, the Sixth Amendment right to 
counsel does not include a right to commit perjury or to 
have the assistance of counsel in presenting false 
testimony.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  When does -- when does the 

Sixth Amendment violation occur?

 MR. McALLISTER:  That question, Your Honor, 
as you realize, is debated a bit in the briefs, it's --
Kansas for purposes of deciding this case, is willing to 
accept the position of the United States and the 
Respondent that it occurs when the statement is admitted 
at trial, although the cases have not necessarily 
definitively resolved that question.  We, frankly, think 
it is unnecessary to answer the question, because it's a 
minimal point in terms of potential deterrence --
deterrence that operate in this segment --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Do you -- do we have any 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

other situation in which, for purposes of impeaching 
testimony, a constitutional violation results?

 MR. McALLISTER:  Well, that's the -- that is 

one of the intricacies of this particular question, 
although arguably in the Fifth Amendment context 
certainly the Miranda warnings are given.  The police 
don't do that.  And if that is the completion of the 
violation, it's analogous in many ways, if one looks 
back at the cases.

 The Court has suggested that the actual 

violation is the use of the statement at trial against 
the defendant, not simply obtaining it without the 
necessary warnings being given.  So we would argue that 
is, in fact --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's parallel to the Fifth.
 MR. McALLISTER:  It's parallel to the Fifth 
in this respect, and certainly, it's distinct from the 
Fourth in that respect.  But we don't think it matters 
at the end of the day.  If one were to treat it like the 
Fourth Amendment, so that the violation is complete when 
the police send in an informant and he works hard to 
elicit statements in violation of the Messiah law, if 
it's complete at that time, then all of the analysis 
from the Fourth Amendment cases is equally applicable 
here. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

If the violation does not occur until it's 

presented at trial, then it's analogous more to the 
Fifth Amendment and also to the Michigan v. Jackson and 
Michigan v. Harvey cases, which were Sixth Amendment 
right to counsel violations, in which case the Court 
said it was wrong for the police to initiate 
interrogation after he invoked his right but will let 
the statement be admitted for impeachment purposes.  So 
it is exactly analogous to what the Court did in Harvey 
itself.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Would it make no 

difference, I take it, General McAllister, if this had 
been a police officer who was pretending to be a 
cellmate?  In this case it was a snitch, but it could be 
a police officer doing inside the cell what he couldn't 
do outside; that is, the police officer outside wants to 
interrogate, must inform the arrestee of his Miranda 
rights, but inside the cell, the police could pretend to 
be a jailbird and they can get the information that way. 
Is that --

MR. McALLISTER:  Well, Justice Ginsburg, I 
believe that is correct if -- if it's for example, an 
undercover officer, someone has gone in -- in fact, 
there are cases such as Weatherford v. Bursey that 
involved an undercover agent who was present for 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

meetings with the defendant and his counsel, and the 
Court indicated that the presence alone would not 
violate the right to counsel.  It's the deliberate 
solicitation and use of statements obtained from the 
defendant that would violate the Sixth Amendment.

 So if a cellmate, another defendant, is the 

informant who listens and hears, it wouldn't make any 
difference under the Court's cases if, in fact, it was a 
police officer pretending to be a cellmate who listens 
and hears.  Just as it wouldn't make -- it wouldn't be a 
violation if there were a recording device in the cell 
and the defendant talked to himself, which there are 
cases of that, and it was picked up on the recording 
device.  The mere listening, that goes to whether there 
is a violation at all.  But the who, there is -- it 
wouldn't matter for our purposes.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So, the police know that 

they can get around the clear prohibition of their 
questioning without Miranda warnings by pretending to be 
a jailbird?

 MR. McALLISTER:  Potentially, yes.  But, 
again, the violation would go to what happens in the 
cell.  So if the police officer is pretending to be 
another defendant and sits in the cell and the defendant 
starts telling the officer things, that would not 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

violate the Sixth Amendment at all under the --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  No, I am assuming we are 
not in the area where the jail mate is simply passive. 
In this case, the jail mate made a statement that 
encouraged the defendant.  He wasn't just passive.  He 
was encouraging the defendant to speak.

 MR. McALLISTER:  There was certainly 

testimony about what he was told to do and what he did. 
It does not suggest aggressive efforts, certainly, to 
find out.  He may not have been completely silent, but 
he certainly didn't say, tell me what you did, let's 
talk about your crimes.  But he did make one arguably 
suggestive statement to the --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Anyway, your answer is 

the police officer could affirmatively elicit testimony?

 MR. McALLISTER:  No, not that he could 

affirmatively elicit.  That's the dividing line between 
the Massiah and Kuhlmann case.  He was in the cell --
well, I guess what I'm suggesting is --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And for your -- you are 

talking about impeachment only.  We are not talking 
about the case in chief.  So if the police -- he 
can't -- outside, when he questions the defendant and 
gives no Miranda warnings, that is inadmissible, right?
 MR. McALLISTER:  Outside -- well, it would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

still be admissible for impeachment.  We are asking for 
basically the same rule.  It would be the same thing if 
he were in the cell, deliberately elicits, knows he is 
violating Massiah, it couldn't be used in the government 
case in chief, but it could be used for impeachment 
purposes.  But that would be true of Miranda, if the 
officer deliberately failed to give the warnings, got a 
statement, they would not be admissible in the case in 
chief; but the Court cases are very clearly, it would be 
admissible for impeachment purposes.

 So we are asking for a precise parallel 

rule.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You are making no 

distinction, then, between the Fifth and Sixth 
Amendment?

 MR. McALLISTER:  Well, there may be 

distinctions, and there is an distinction in the text of 
the Fifth Amendment that suggests actually a rule of 
exclusion when you truly have -- when there truly is a 
compelled statement.  And the Court has recognized that 
in cases such as Portash, where the witness has given 
use immunity, testifies before the grand jury and the 
government later tries to use it against him.  The Court 
says, no, you cannot use that testimony for any purpose.
 So there is a difference between the Sixth 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Amendment and Fifth Amendment in that respect.

 But what I was suggesting is the way Massiah 

and Miranda operate is similar in this context, that a 
violation results in suppression of the evidence from 
the government's case in chief, but it remains available 
for use as impeachment.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What about the argument 

that essentially this is like taking a pretrial 
deposition, only one side isn't represented?

 MR. McALLISTER:  Well, with all due respect 

to that argument, Your Honor, we disagree with that. 
There are strong incentives for the police, frankly, not 
to do this.  And in part one of the reasons -- well, 
there is two.  One is the police know if this is truly 
in violation of the Sixth Amendment, then nothing can be 
used in the case in chief.  So, at most, it is 
impeachment if the defendant testifies and if the 
defendant testifies inconsistently with whatever is 
elicited.

 But furthermore, given the line the court 

has drawn between Massiah and Kuhlmann and what goes on 
with the informant in the cell, if they can hear the 
statements without deliberately eliciting them, if you 
will, if the informant is present, the defendant wants 
to talk, starts chatting, they discuss the crime, those 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

statements, the Court has held in Kuhlmann, are 
admissible for all purposes, because they are not a 
Sixth Amendment violation at all.

 So, the police do have some strong 

incentives to actually try to gather the evidence, if 
they are going to, in a way that makes it usable in the 
prosecution's case in chief.  It's much less value to 
having it solely for impeachment, which is always going 
to be speculative if it were ever going to be used.  It 
would depend on if the defendant testifies and if he 
testifies inconsistently with what he has told an 
informant.

 And in that regard, there are other 

deterrents I would like to mention here as well.  The 
informant in this case, for example, in jail recognized 
that he did not want to be an aggressive questioner or 
obvious as a government agent.  In fact, he said, I 
didn't really want to ask him questions because I was 
afraid if he felt I was being too nosey, I might get 
hurt.  So, the informants have their own incentives to 
be careful here.

 And in this case, it's also important to 

remember that deterrence is simply one side of the 
balance.  And the Court has said many times even if 
there would be some deterrent effect to extending the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

rule to include impeachment, that doesn't answer the 
question whether it should, in fact, be excluded.  That 
still must be weighed against the costs on the other 
side.

 And the Court has numerous cases emphasizing 

the costs that are present on the other side of this 
case.  Perjury by criminal defendants is a primary one, 
but also cases talking about the importance of allowing 
the jury to hear the truth and to search for truth.

 The jury here gets to evaluate and did, I 

would argue, quite effectively from Mr. Ventris's 
standpoint, evaluate the defendant's credibility.  The 
jury was informed, cross-examination, of the informant's 
circumstances, what benefit he received, who he was, all 
the things they might want to know in deciding whether 
to believe him.  His testimony went not solely but 
primarily to the question of who was the shooter in the 
murder in the case, and the jury acquitted Mr. Ventris 
of the murder charge, so they did not believe, at least 
beyond a reasonable doubt, that he in fact was the 
shooter.  And that is precisely how this should work.
 We are not saying informants are always 

100 percent reliable, but we are saying the court has a 
long tradition, the country has a long tradition, of 
putting this evidence in front of a jury.  It's tested 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

by cross-examination, knowledge of what the incentives 
are, bringing that out in front of the jury, and then 
the jury decides.  There are many of these cases where 
-- this was a typical, one codefendant saying, "he was 
the shooter," the other defendant saying, "no, she was 
the shooter."

 And the informant simply had information 
that was relevant to the credibility.  And that's the 
way it was used in this case, was as impeachment on 
rebuttal to evaluate Mr. Ventris's testimony in whether 
the jury believed him or not.

 The other thing I would remind the Court is 

we are simply saying that the rule should be no 
exclusion under the Sixth Amendment for impeachment 
purposes, but that does not mean that the normal rules 
of evidence and other rules of trial procedure do not 
apply.  They do.  And they might well result in the 
exclusion of some potential informant's testimony.  So 
if the government were to want to put on an informant 
who had been convicted many times of perjury and the 
judge said, no, I just do not think this evidence is 
credible enough to even put in front of the jury, not 
this person, the ordinary rules of evidence and trial 
procedure would operate.  Furthermore, as happened in 
this case, the judge can, and often will, give 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

cautionary instructions, limiting instructions.  All of 
that remains appropriate, but there is simply no reason 
to exclude the evidence as a matter of the Sixth 
Amendment right to counsel.

 It would be inconsistent, frankly, with --

with, really, the general tone and holdings of the cases 
in the Fourth Amendment, Miranda, and even Sixth 
Amendment territory, including primarily 
Michigan v. Harvey and Nix v. Williams.

 Unless the Court has further questions, I 

will reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Ms. Saharsky.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY

 ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,

 AS AMICUS CURIAE,

 SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER

 MS. SAHARSKY:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 This Court has consistently allowed the use 

of voluntary statements obtained in violation of 
constitutional standards for impeachment purposes, and 
that same rule should apply here.  There is no question 
that Respondent's statements were voluntary, and the 
substantial societal cost of allowing him to commit 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

perjury unchecked greatly outweighs any speculative 
deterrence benefit that would flow from a per se rule of 
exclusion.

 The purpose of the right to counsel is to 

provide an adversary process to ensure that the 
defendant gets a fair trial.  And to effectuate that 
right, the Court has excluded deliberately elicited 
statements from the government's case-in-chief.  But not 
allowing the statements for impeachment purposes doesn't 
further that right.  Instead, what it does is allow the 
defendant to distort the truth-seeking process, and 
that's just too high a price to pay.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, you say there 
is no deterrent value, since the police are -- are not 
going to do this if they know they are not going to be 
able to use this in their case-in-chief.  But there is 
also no down side, is there?

 I mean, you say it's only for impeachment 

purposes, but, you know, why not?  He -- he may take the 
stand.  He may lie.  It is better to have this in the 
bank instead of not.

 MS. SAHARSKY:  But there is a down side.  I 
mean, as this Court recognized in cases versus -- like 
Hudson v. Michigan, for example, the police have their 
own codes of conduct.  They have training on 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

constitutional rules and standards.  And if they violate 
those constitutional rules and standards, it has real 
effect for the police.  It has effect in terms of 
internal discipline, in -- in terms of limiting their 
career opportunities.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is that internal 

discipline verifiable?  Do police officers who engage 
snitches, do they get disciplined, especially if they 
are then able to accomplish what was accomplished here? 
That is, the -- the testimony -- the snitch is then able 
to testify after the defendant testifies.

 MS. SAHARSKY:  I don't think that there is 

any evidence in the briefs, and I am not aware of 
specific instances of discipline, but I think that that 
is because this situation arises pretty infrequently. 
You know, when this came up in the Kansas Supreme Court 
it was a case of first impression.  And as General 
McAllister noted, there are a lot of reasons why the 
police would want to follow the rule in Kuhlman and send 
the informant in to be a passive listening post. 
Because if --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  On the Federal level is 

there anything one way or another, any manual that 
instructs a U.S. Attorney about the use of snitches to 
extract confessions? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. SAHARSKY:  I think the Department of 

Justice Manual sets out this Court's rules in terms of 
the Kuhlman case and the Henry case.  And then, of 
course, there are also State and the Model Professional 
Ethics Rules that talk about when a prosecutor can 
contact a person who is represented by counsel.  And 
there are limitations there as well, both in terms of 
the prosecutor contacting a person represented or using 
an agent contacting a person represented.

 But I mean, those are -- those are 
deterrents.  I think the police discipline is a 
deterrent.  But I think we also need to -- to focus on 
this Court's cases in the Fourth and Fifth and Sixth 
Amendment Jackson context that taking the evidence and 
making it unavailable in the government's case-in-chief 
is a substantial deterrent.

 This Court said in each of those previous 

case that not having the evidence available in the 
government's case-in-chief is a very high price to pay, 
because that means that the government has to come up 
with other evidence that can meet its burden of proving 
all of the elements of the case beyond a reasonable 
doubt.

 And, as General McAllister noted, it is 

really very speculative, and the police certainly 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

wouldn't know at the time they are asking questions of 
the defendant, whether this rebuttal impeachment 
evidence could ever be used.  It's entirely within the 
control of the defendant.  It is only if the defendant 
-- if the government first meets its burden of proof 
with other evidence at trial, and then the defendant 
decides to testify, and then he testifies inconsistently 
with his prior statements.

 And our position is at that point that the 

jury should hear the conflicting evidence just as it has 
heard it in all of these other previous cases and be 
allowed to make a decision about who is telling the 
truth.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  It seems to me you are 

just confirming the answer to the Chief Justice's 
question.  There really isn't any down side.  The worst 
that -- the worst that happens is maybe they can't use 
the stuff.  But what -- what is the down side?

 MS. SAHARSKY:  Again, I -- I think that 

there is a down side in terms of police discipline and 
the deterrence --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Has any police officer 

ever been disciplined for doing this; do you know?

 MS. SAHARSKY:  I -- I --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  I would find it rather 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

amazing if he has.

 MS. SAHARSKY:  Again, I think that most 

police officers just follow the rule that this Court set 
forth in Kuhlman, so that this issue has not arisen 
frequently.  But, you know, even if you thought that 
there would be some type of minimal deterrence benefit 
that would arise from -- from not making the evidence 
available for impeachment purposes, you have to balance 
it against the cost to the truth-seeking process that 
would be incurred if the defendant could --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  The defendant could 

sometimes lie.  But sometimes people who are in this 
position in prison are not the most trustworthy people, 
either.

 MS. SAHARSKY:  I think --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  You could bring that out 

on cross-examination.  I understand that.

 MS. SAHARSKY:  That -- that is what I was 

going to say.  I mean, as General McAllister noted, that 
-- that happened in this case.  The prosecutor himself 
got up and talked about the -- the informant's prior 
offenses, why the informant was in jail, whether the 
informant received anything in exchange for his 
testimony, the fact that the informant had actually gone 
back to jail after testifying -- or after serving as an 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

informant in this case.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  It seems to me that that 
all confirms the fact, well, they have nothing to lose. 
Maybe we have one witness who is not very persuasive, 
but no harm in giving it a try.

 MS. SAHARSKY:  I think that the -- the fact 

that the evidence would be unavailable in the 
government's case-in-chief really is a strong price that 
the government pays.  And -- and this Court recognized 
it in in Havens, in Walder, in Harris, in Hass, in 
Harvey, and in all of those prior cases.  And there is 
just -- there is not any reason to depart from them, 
because the -- the other side of the balance is that, 
you know, you are letting a defendant to get up and take 
the stand and -- and not subject himself to this prior 
statement.

 And this -- this prior statement, if 

believed by the jury, is incredibly important to his 
credibility, probative with respect to whether the 
crimes were committed and the defendant is telling the 
truth.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  If it is truthfully 

reported.  Of course, that is always -- that is an issue 
of credibility in all of these cases.

 MS. SAHARSKY:  Yes, every case has a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

question about someone's credibility, some witness's 
credibility, and that's for the jury to decide.  And in 
-- in this case there was ample cross-examination, and 
there was the limiting instruction that the State 
mentioned.

 I mean, clearly the jury did its job here 

because it went back and it considered all this 
information.  And it didn't come back with a -- a 
verdict -- although you, of course, never know exactly 
what the jury is thinking, it didn't come back with a 
verdict suggesting it just reflexively believed the 
informant's testimony.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Ms. Saharsky, I am still a 
little hung up on -- on whether we would be allowing a 
constitutional violation.  General McAllister said that 
in the Fifth Amendment area we -- we indeed allow --
allow it to be introduced in rebuttal even though that 
is the actual constitutional violation.  Isn't that the 
case other than in the Miranda situation?  I mean, 
suppose you have a generally coerced confession.  Would 
we -- would we permit that to go in?

 MS. SAHARSKY:  Certainly not.  In the Fifth 

Amendment context, the text of the amendment itself 
would prohibit the use of that statement for any 
purposes. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Exactly, but why -- why is 

not that the case with the right to counsel?

 MS. SAHARSKY:  Because the text of the Sixth 

Amendment doesn't say anything about the exclusion of 
evidence at trial. What it does is it guarantees counsel 
for a purpose, and that purpose is to ensure an 
adversary process at trial. And if counsel is not 
afforded, then it's up to the court to determine what 
the remedy is --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  But its real meaning is 
that counsel is guaranteed at trial; isn't that right?

 MS. SAHARSKY:  I'm sorry.  I missed the 

first --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Its root purpose is that 
counsel is guaranteed at trial.  And here we're saying 
it's okay not to have counsel at trial so long as it's 
refuting a lie by the defendant.

 MS. SAHARSKY:  That's not true. I mean, 

certainly counsel is available at trial. The question is 
just whether statements that were obtained without 
counsel prior to trial can be used for impeachment 
purposes. The answer --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  So you say that -- you say 

the Sixth Amendment violation occurs before trial?

 MS. SAHARSKY:  I'm sorry if I suggested 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that.  No, the Sixth Amendment violation occurs when the 
statements are introduced in the government's case in 
chief at trial.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's right.
 MS. SAHARSKY:  And that's because the 

government should not be allowed to go behind counsel 
prior to trial and gather up statements, and then use 
them to prove guilt at trial. That subverts the 
adversary process. When you are talking about 
impeachment, you are not talking about proving guilt at 
trial. You are not talking about the government 
distorting the adversary process.  If there is any 
distortion of the adversary process, it's with the 
defendant attempting to commit perjury at that point.
 The Sixth Amendment is different from the 
Fifth Amendment in that it doesn't say anything about 
statements that are obtained and if it can be used at 
trial.  And that means it's up to courts to balance the 
cost and benefit of exclusion of evidence.  And in the 
case of the government's case in chief, that balance 
means that that the statements cannot come in because it 
would be too much of a cost to the adversary process 
that the Sixth Amendment guarantees to allow the 
statements in.

 But, when you switch over in looking at 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

impeachment, this Court said 50 years ago impeachment is 
a very different story than the government's case in 
chief. The interest that you are talking about 
furthering there, the adversary process interest, would 
not be furthered by allowing the defendant to take the 
stand and be able to commit perjury unchecked. It would 
not be furthered, and it would not lead to greater 
deterrence by simply allowing the statements to be 
unavailable for impeachment purposes, because the great 
deterrent comes with the statements being unavailable in 
the government's case in chief.

 We just don't think there's any reason to 

depart from this Court's rule that, so long as 
statements are not involuntary, they can be used for 
impeachment purposes.

 If there are no further questions, we submit 

the judgment below should be reversed.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Edge.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW J. EDGE

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. EDGE:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 I guess I have basically three arguments 

with the -- or problems with the State's position. First 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of all, what we are dealing with in the Sixth Amendment 
case here is a violation of a core enumerated trial 
right, and this makes it a very different animal from 
all the other cases that we are talking about. If we are 
talking about the Fourth Amendment, we are talking about 
something that isn't a trial right. It's a right of the 
people to be secure in their homes and possessions. The 
violation occurs when the police commit whatever 
misconduct makes the search of the evidence illegal. But 
the use of that evidence at trial doesn't work any 
further constitutional --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Wasn't this individual 

represented by counsel? Was he represented by counsel?

 MR. EDGE:  Yes, he was.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  And he was represented by 

counsel at the time that the informant took the 
statement, got the statement elicited? Is that right?

 MR. EDGE:  No, I don't think so --
JUSTICE BREYER:  I have my memo that I 

haven't looked through carefully, but I would be quite 
interested. I thought he asked for counsel.  He was 
given counsel, and subsequent to that, this statement 
was elicited. I would like to know that because the 
Sixth Amendment says you have right to assistance of 
counsel in your defense, period. And I guess, if he had 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

a lawyer, the lawyer could have told him, "Don't talk to 
informants in the jailhouse."  He could have said, "I'm 
going to talk to who I want." Or he might not have. But 
I would be interested in knowing, did he have assistance 
of counsel at the time the statement was elicited?  It's 
one thing to me if he did, and another if he didn't. 
Don't know?

 MR. EDGE:  No.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  How can I find out?
 MR. EDGE:  No, the -- I don't know exactly 

the day that this happened. I do know that he was 
arrested on the 16th of January of 2004, and there was a 
search of his cell on January 20th. And we know from 
that testimony that -- why that's relevant that he was 
cellmates with Mr. Doser by that time, and Mr. Doser 
testified that he was the cellmate of Mr. Ventris for 
two days.  And on the second day, Mr. Ventris supposedly 
made these statements.

 So my best guess is that the -- this 

conversation occurred sometime between the 17th and the 
20th. Now, the order of appointing counsel was entered 
on January 21st, and counsel doesn't enter his 
appearance until January 27th.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  So it might be he asked for 

counsel but hadn't yet received counsel? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. EDGE:  Correct, Your Honor.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, do I 

understand the first sentence on page 6 of your brief to 
concede that there's no deterrent value from prohibiting 
the introduction of these statements for impeachment? 
The sentence says, "A Sixth Amendment exclusionary rule 
that allowed use of uncounseled statements for 
impeachment would not deter violations of the right to 
counsel."

 MR. EDGE:  That's correct, Your Honor. And 
the reason I believe this is that, as long as there's 
some kind of incentive for the prosecutor to use 
informants in this manner, then the only -- then even if 
they are not usable in the case in chief, there is still 
an incentive to use this kind of evidence, and the 
prosecutor and the police will attempt to obtain it. 
There's simply very little downside. The prosecutor 
instructs the informant not to deliberately elicit the 
statement. The prosecutor is still responsible for the 
informant, because the informant is his agent, so even 
if -- when the informant goes ahead and deliberately 
elicits the statement, it's still a constitutional 
violation. But so long as you allow it for some kind of 
purpose, then there isn't a deterrent effect, and to --
JUSTICE ALITO:  So in a situation like we 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

have here, where the law enforcement officers do not 
instruct the informant to do anything that would violate 
the Sixth Amendment and in fact, according to their 
testimony, instruct him to engage in conduct that is 
consistent with the Sixth Amendment, there's no 
deterrent value in later suppressing the use of the 
statements for impeachment purposes?

 MR. EDGE:  I mean  -- I guess, maybe I am 
confused. There is a deterrent -- there is a deterrent 
effect from suppressing it in the case in chief, but 
it's not sufficient unless it's also extended to use in 
rebuttal as well.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  But what do you want to 

deter? You want to deter them from using informants at 
all, even in a manner that is consistent with the Sixth 
Amendment?

 MR. EDGE:  No, Your Honor. What I am 

attempting to deter is the sort of up-ending of the 
adversarial system that this represents. There was a 
question that was presented earlier about when does this 
violation occur? And I think that gets to the manner of 
-- or the nature of the Sixth Amendment violation. Our 
contention is that the violation occurs when the 
statement is extracted, and then it's further aggravated 
when it's used at trial. When the police obtain these 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

kinds of statements, even if they are not used at trial, 
it does work a harm on the defendant and his 
relationship with counsel. It affects defendant's --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I see the problem. I wonder 
if you have an answer to another question. You may not. 
I can't find it. It seems to me it's been 20 years since 
this -- nearly 20 -- since the Court decided the 
Michigan case. The other cases were decided even 
earlier. And it's just surprising to me that it has 
never come up or rarely, rarely come up that the 
question of whether the State can introduce into 
evidence a statement made when the State questioned an 
individual who'd asked for counsel or had counsel out of 
the presence of the counsel.

 I mean, does that normally happen, or does 
it never happen? Why is there so little law on it? Do 
you have any idea?

 MR. EDGE:  I do not, Your Honor. And I am 
really at a loss to speculate as to why that would be.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You agree with the 

representations on -- from your friends on the other 
side that there is no case of ours where we have 
excluded a statement of evidence submitted for 
impeachment, even though it would have been excluded in 
this case in chief?  If you prevail here, it would be 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the first time that any evidence or statement has been 
excluded when submitted for purposes of impeachment?
 MR. EDGE:  It would be a very different 

rule.  I think the only rule that this would be the case 
so far is in Portash, the self-incrimination clause.  We 
are saying that the same type of rule should apply to 
the Sixth Amendment.  Otherwise, no, that's correct, 
whenever you are talking about the Fourth Amendment or 
one of the prophylactic rules like Miranda or Jackson, 
then they are admissible for impeachment purposes.  What 
makes this case different is that it -- it involves a 
violation of an enumerated Constitutional trial right.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's what I'm not certain 
about.  And this is why I ask -- have been asking these 
questions and what I can't figure out in my own mind is 
this.

 I ask for a lawyer.  The State has some 

period of time to give me a lawyer.  Now it's one thing 
if what's going on is once I ask for a lawyer, the State 
should deal with me through my lawyer; that's how they 
are supposed to do it.  But that isn't as basic --
that's like a rule of ethics in most States in civil 
context and other contexts -- that's not as basic as if 
I ask for a lawyer and then the State just doesn't give 
me one, though it should. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

That's a different violation, a different 
kind of violation.  One is a kind of a rule of ethics 
incorporated in the Constitution.  The second is what 
the case is -- is what the Constitution is really about, 
give him a lawyer when he asks for one.  And which is 
this case?  That -- that's why I'm having hard time.  Is 
it the first or the second?

 MR. EDGE:  Well, in -- I think one of the 

complicating factors here, Your Honor, is that the State 
in this particular case didn't try a straightforward 
interrogation.  They sent in an undercover informant.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  No, no, no.  I will 

amalgamate that for you.  I will say they are exactly 
the same thing.  But what I want to know is what rule is 
violated, what Sixth Amendment rule.  The rule -- you 
heard what I said, the rule "don't talk to a guy who 
wants a lawyer until you talk to the lawyer."  No 
communications with a client.  It's a communication with 
the lawyer.  That's one thing.

 And the other rule is he has asked for a 
lawyer but you never gave him one.  Now which is this 
case?  I mean, I first thought well if he didn't have a 
lawyer at all, then it must be the second; but then I 
thought they must have a reasonable time to give him a 
lawyer, and they haven't violated that second. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

If you have any view on that, it would be 

helpful to me.

 MR. EDGE:  I don't know whether he had asked 
for a lawyer or not.  I know that he was entitled to one 
at the time, and one would be appointed for him.  But 
otherwise--

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But we do know that 

unlike the police giving Miranda warnings, there's no 
warning here at all.  I mean, he thinks he is talking to 
a cellmate.  Nobody tells him, "remember you've got a 
right to be represented by counsel," and he's 
essentially giving a statement without the Miranda 
warnings.

 MR. EDGE:  That's correct, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the other side says 
well, practically, the defendant is much more likely to 
say something that's really involuntary when he is 
confronting police officers, that the reason that we 
exclude in the case of a police officer is this 
intimidating setting, when the defendant is in the 
police station or in the cell and there are these police 
officers.  Now he thinks he's just with a cellmate, so 
there isn't -- there isn't the coercive atmosphere that 
there is when the police do the questioning.

 MR. EDGE:  Well, Your Honor, I think that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there certainly can be a coercive atmosphere even if you 
are not talking to a known police agent.  Now, those are 
not the facts of this particular case and there is no 
claim that the statement was involuntary.  However, one 
of the advantages of speaking to known police officers 
is that a defendant can simply end the interrogation by 
invoking his right to counsel, and that is not 
necessarily a course of action that is available to him 
if he thinks he is merely talking to a cellmate, 
somebody who whether he wants to speak to him or not is 
going to be in the cell with him for some time.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, you've --

you've emphasized that what distinguishes this case from 
the other ones where we have allowed evidence that would 
be excluded from the case in chief and for impeachment 
purposes is that this is a trial right.  But the Sixth 
Amendment says in criminal prosecutions you have a right 
to the assistance of counsel.  Well, he had assistance 
of counsel here, and one of the things that counsel did 
was point out the problems with relying on the snitch's 
evidence and all the bad things that he did.

 But -- but just like in the case of a Fourth 

Amendment violation where we allow the evidence to be 
admitted at trial, this Sixth Amendment problem, you 
know, it doesn't -- I just don't see the -- the strength 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of that distinction.

 MR. EDGE:  Your Honor, I think it goes to 

the nature of the harm that comes from a Sixth Amendment 
violation.  The Sixth Amendment simply doesn't limit 
itself to the trial.  The exact wording of the -- the 
constitutional provision is in all criminal 
prosecutions.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, it seems to me 

you are getting away from the basis for your 
distinction, then.  Saying well, it's not just at trial. 
Well, these other constitutional rights where we have 
allowed the evidence to come in for impeachment are 
indistinguishable from the Sixth Amendment right, 
outside of trial.

 MR. EDGE:  Well, because the harm isn't 

something that just affects the outcome of the trial, it 
also affects the -- it affects the litigation in a much, 
much deeper way.  It affects counsel's trial strategy, 
it affects the defendant's decision whether or not to 
testify.  It also --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Just to pause on 
that, it affects his decision to testify because it 
makes it more likely that he will testify truthfully if 
he is going to testify.

 MR. EDGE:  Not necessarily. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The focus -- the 
focus on the context is at least a double-edged sword 
because the harm that we are facilitating under your 
rule is to allow perjured testimony.

 MR. EDGE:  Yes, Your Honor, in some contexts 
it would.  I think one of the underlying assumptions of 
the State's argument with regard to perjury is that the 
mere existence of a prior inconsistent statement is 
necessarily indicative of perjury, and we know there are 
many reasons why the defendant may have given a prior 
inconsistent statement.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Yeah, and if he has 

the assistance at trial consistent with the Sixth 
Amendment, those -- those problems could be pointed out. 
He was -- he was he is not lying now.  The reason he 
said something different then was, you know, he likes to 
brag in prison or whatever the basis is.

 MR. EDGE:  In some cases it will be possible 

for counsel to vigorously cross-examine the informant. 
In others it may not.  But in addition to that, Your 
Honor, I would also say that it doesn't simply affect 
the decision whether or not to go to trial or whether or 
not to testify at trial; it also affects the litigation 
in a very deep way, inasmuch as the defendant is 
burdened in trying to negotiate a favorable plea deal. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Every statement or every piece of evidence 

that the State has affects their willingness to plea 
bargain, and when the State obtains this kind of 
evidence illegally, it puts the defendant in a bind for 
-- puts the defendant's counsel in a bind.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I think -- I think 
that's quite right.  But I don't see how excluding the 
evidence even on impeachment helps that.  I mean, 
they've still got the statement, and they -- I mean, you 
know -- I guess your point, you know, maybe they will 
get some leads from it even if they can't use it.  But 
excluding the evidence for impeachment purposes doesn't 
eliminate that harm.

 MR. EDGE:  It would, Your Honor, inasmuch it 

would remove any disincentive for the police to obtain 
this evidence by this manner in the first place.  So 
there would be that marginal deterrent factor.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Which of the things that 

you've just said result from the use of this for 
impeachment would not be true with respect to the other 
situations where illegally obtained evidence has been 
used for impeachment purposes?  Take the Fourth 
Amendment, for example.

 MR. EDGE:  I think they would be largely the 

same, Your Honor.  The difference would be in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

interest protected.  The self-incrimination clause in 
the Fifth Amendment is aimed primarily at coercion of 
the defendant; whereas, the Sixth Amendment aims 
primarily at the preservation of an adversarial process, 
the relationship between counsel and his attorney.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  You don't dispute that there 

was a Sixth Amendment violation at the time this 
statement was taken, do you?

 MR. EDGE:  No, I do not.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You urged a -- a 

fall-back, and you said at least that there may -- there 
should be a determination by the judge that the 
defendant intentionally testified falsely.  And I was 
wondering how that would operate.  You are here in the 
-- the heat of the trial, and the prosecutor says, I 
want to call snitch so-and-so.  And then what do we do, 
just interrupt the trial and have kind of a mini trial 
to test the credibility of the -- the informant?

 MR. EDGE:  Yes, you could, Your Honor. 

Also, you could have it as part of the pretrial 
suppression hearings.  I would anticipate that even if 
the -- if the Court were to adopt our position, these 
kinds of Sixth Amendment cases are still going to be 
litigated.  The issue is simply going to be whether or 
not the States or the police agent is deliberately 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

eliciting the statement or not.

 So there is -- there is likely going to be 

some kind of pretrial litigation regarding the 
admissibility of the statements, and it could be handled 
at that time.

 If there are no further questions, I will 

reserve the remainder of my time.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

Mr. McAllister, you have six minutes remaining.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN R. McALLISTER

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. McALLISTER:  Two points by way of 
rebuttal.  The balancing of the interests here is 
sprinkling water under the bridge even in the Sixth 
Amendment context.  In both Nix versus Williams and 
Michigan versus Harvey where the Court was dealing with 
Sixth Amendment interests and the Sixth Amendment right 
to counsel violations, the bulk of those cases make 
clear that the question of what exclusionary effect to 
give a violation is subject to a balancing analysis. 
And that's what we are asking for here.  That's why it's 
treated for these purposes like the Fourth Amendment in 
the Miranda context.

 And Nicks itself, to paraphrase the Court, 
makes a fundamental point which I think illustrates how 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

this works, and it worked effectively to defendant's 
advantage in this case.

 In Nix v. Williams, the Court said the Sixth 

Amendment right to counsel -- and I am paraphrasing 
slightly -- protects against unfairness by assuring an 
adversary process in which proffered evidence is tested 
by cross-examination.  And it's done in front of a jury. 
It is not about requiring the exclusion of entire 
categories of witnesses or types of evidence for all 
purposes.

 So the right to counsel was exercised.  It 
was exercised effectively in this case when Mr. Doser 
was strongly cross-examined by defense counsel.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Would that apply equally 

for statements under oath?

 MR. McALLISTER:  It could, Your Honor.  I 
realize a logical extension is you could say just test 
all of it.  But that is where the -- the police here and 
prosecutor pay the price of the way in which the 
evidence was obtained.  It's excluded from the 
government's case-in-chief.

 Unless there are further questions, we would 

respectfully ask that this Court reverse the decision 
below.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 12:01 p.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

able 15:16 16:9 

16:10 24:6 

above-entitled 

1:11 40:3 
accept 4:18 
accomplish 16:9 
accomplished 

16:9 

acquitted 12:18 
action 33:8 
actual 5:10 

21:18 

addition 35:20 
admissibility 

38:4 

admissible 9:1,8 

9:10 11:2 
30:10 

admitted 4:19 

6:8 33:24 
adopt 37:22 
advantage 39:2 
advantages 33:5 
adversarial 
28:19 37:4 

adversary 15:5 
22:7 23:9,12 
23:13,22 24:4 
39:6 

affect 35:21 
affirmatively 

8:15,17 

afforded 22:8 
afraid 11:19 
agent 6:25 11:17 

17:9 27:20 
33:2 37:25 
aggravated 

28:24 

aggressive 8:9 

11:16 
ago 24:1 
agree 29:20 
ahead 27:21 
aimed 37:2 
aims 37:3 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

anticipate 37:21  assuring 39:5 
atmosphere 
Anyway 8:14 
appearance 
32:23 33:1 

26:23 

21:16,17 23:23  APPEARAN... 
27:23 33:23 
35:4 

1:14 

ALITO 27:25 
28:13 36:18 
37:6 

allow 15:10 

allowed 14:20 

18:12 23:6 
27:7 33:14 
34:12 

allowing 12:8 
14:25 15:9 
21:14 24:5,8 
amalgamate 

31:13 

Appellate 1:21 
applicable 5:24 
apply 13:17 
14:23 30:6 
39:14 

appointed 32:5 
appointing 

26:21 

appropriate 

14:2 

balancing 38:13  careful 11:21

brag 35:17
BREYER 25:12
25:15,19 26:9 
26:24 29:4
30:13 31:12
bridge 38:14
brief 27:3
briefs 4:16

16:13

bring 19:16
bringing 13:2
bulk 38:18
burden 17:21

18:5

burdened 35:25
Bursey 6:24

C
C 2:1 3:1 
call 37:16
career 16:5

carefully 25:20
case 3:4,16 4:17 
6:5,14 8:4,18 
8:22 9:5,8 10:5 
10:16 11:7,15
11:22 12:7,18
13:9,25 16:17 
17:3,3,18,22
19:20 20:1,25
21:3,19 22:2 
23:2,20,20
24:2,11 25:2 
27:14 28:10
29:8,22,25
30:4,11 31:4,6 
31:10,22 32:19 
33:3,13,15,22
39:2,12 40:1,2 

cases 4:20 5:9 

5:24 6:4,24 7:8 
7:13 9:9,21
12:5,8 13:3 
14:6 15:23
17:13 18:11
20:11,24 25:4 

attempt 27:16 
attempting 

23:14 28:18 
attorney 16:24 

37:5 

available 10:5 

17:18 19:8 
22:19 33:8 
aware 16:13 
a.m 1:13 3:2 

B

back 5:9 19:25 

21:7,8,10
bad 33:21
balance 11:24 

19:8 20:13 
23:18,20 

38:20 

bank 15:21 
bargain 36:3 
basic 30:21,23 
basically 9:2 

basis 4:1,7 34:9 

24:24 

35:17 

behalf 1:16,19 

1:22 2:4,6,9,12 
3:7 14:15 
24:21 38:11 
believe 6:22 

12:16,19 27:11 

believed 13:11 
20:18 21:11 
benefit 12:14 

15:2 19:6 
23:19 

best 26:19 
better 15:20 
beyond 12:20 

17:22 

bind 36:4,5 
bit 4:16 

amazing 19:1 
amendment 4:3  arguably 5:5

area 8:3 21:16 

8:12

12:11

argue 5:13

4:9,14 5:5,20 
5:24 6:3,4 7:5 
8:1 9:15,18 
10:1,1,15 11:3  argument 1:12
2:2,10 3:4,6 
13:14 14:4,7,8 
10:7,11 14:14 
17:14 21:16,23 
24:20 35:7
21:23 22:4,24 
38:10
23:1,15,16,23 
25:1,5,24 27:6  arguments
28:3,5,16,22 
30:7,8 31:15 
33:17,23,24 
34:3,4,13 
35:14 36:23 
37:2,3,7,23 
38:15,17,17,22 
39:4 

arisen 19:4
arises 16:15
arrested 26:12
arrestee 6:17
asked 25:21
26:24 29:13
31:20 32:3
amicus 1:19 2:6  asking 9:1,11
18:1 30:14
38:21

14:16 

24:24

ample 21:3 
analogous 5:8 

asks 31:5
assistance 4:11

6:2,9 

analysis 5:23 

38:20 

animal 25:3 
answer 3:20 

25:24 26:4
33:18,18 35:13 

Assistant 1:17

1:21

4:22 8:14 12:1  assuming 8:2
assumptions
18:15 22:22 
29:5 

35:6

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

29:8 35:18 
37:23 38:18 
case-in-chief 

15:8,16 17:15 
17:19 20:8 
39:21 

coercion 37:2 
coercive 32:23 

33:1 

come 17:20 21:8 

20:23 21:9 
33:8 

3:12,23 5:2 
14:22 16:1,2 
21:15,18 25:11  court 1:1,12 3:9  decided 29:7,8 
27:22 30:12 
34:6,11 

debated 4:16 
decide 21:2 

decides 13:3 

18:7 

21:10 23:21 
29:10,10 34:12  contact 17:6 

communicatio... 

35:5 

34:3 

comes 24:10 

categories 39:9 
cautionary 14:1 
cell 6:15,18 7:11  commit 4:10 
14:25 23:14 
24:6 25:8 
committed 

7:23,24 8:18 
9:3 10:22 
26:13 32:21 
33:11 

20:20 

cellmate 6:14 
7:6,9 26:16 
32:10,22 33:9 
cellmates 26:15 
certain 30:13 
certainly 5:6,17 
8:7,9,11 17:25 
21:22 22:19 
33:1 

communication 

31:18 

31:18 

9:20 

5:23 

compelled 3:16 

complete 5:20 

completely 8:10 
completion 5:7 
complicating 

concede 27:4 
conduct 15:25 

31:9 

charge 12:19 
chatting 10:25 
chief 3:3,8 8:22 
9:5,9 10:5,16 
11:7 14:12,18 
15:13 18:15 
23:3,20 24:3 
24:11,18,22 
27:2,14 28:10 
29:20,25 33:12  confirming 
33:15 34:8,21 
35:1,12 36:6 
38:8 39:25 

18:15 

16:25 

28:4 

confirms 20:3 
conflicting 

confession 21:20 
confessions 

circumstances 

12:14 

18:10 

confronting 

32:18 

confused 28:9 

civil 30:22 
claim 33:4 
clause 30:5 37:1  considered 21:7 
clear 7:18 38:19  consistent 28:5 
clearly 9:9 21:6 
28:15 35:13 
client 31:18 
consistently 
codefendant 

14:20 

13:4 

codes 15:25 
coerced 21:20 

Constitution 

31:3,4 

constitutional 

12:15 

decision 18:12 

deciding 4:17 

3:10,14 5:10 
6:5,9 7:2 9:9 
9:20,23 10:20 
11:1,24 12:5 
12:23 13:12 
14:10,19,20 
15:7,23 16:16 
17:17 19:3 
20:9 22:8 24:1  deeper 34:18 
24:23 29:7 
37:22 38:16,24 
39:3,23 

deep 35:24 

34:19,22 35:22 
39:23 

defendant 3:13 
5:12 7:1,5,6,12 
7:24,24 8:5,6 
8:23 10:17,18 
10:24 11:10 
13:5 15:6,11 
16:11 18:2,4,4 
18:6 19:10,11 
20:14,20 22:17 
23:14 24:5 
29:2 32:16,20 
33:6 35:10,24 
36:4 37:3,13 

courts 23:18 
Court's 7:8 17:2 

17:13 24:13 

credibility 12:12 
13:8 20:19,24 
21:1,2 37:18 
credible 13:22 
crime 10:25 
crimes 8:12 

20:20 

contacting 17:8 

17:9 

contention 

28:23 

context 5:5 10:3 

17:14 21:23 
30:23 35:2 
38:15,23 

contexts 30:23 

control 18:4 
conversation 

26:20 

convicted 13:20 
core 25:2 
correct 6:22 

27:1,10 30:7 
32:14 

cost 14:25 19:9 

12:7 

cross-examine 

defendants 3:24 

cross-examina... 

12:13 13:1 
19:17 21:3 
39:7 

criminal 3:24 
12:7 33:17 
34:6 

defendant's 
3:11 12:12 
29:3 34:19 
36:5 39:1 

23:19,22 
costs 12:3,6 
counsel 4:10,11 
6:5 7:1,3 14:4 
14:12 15:4 
17:6 22:2,5,7 
22:11,15,16,19 
22:21 23:6 
24:18 25:13,13 
25:16,21,22,25  cross-examined  definitively 4:21 
26:5,21,22,25 
26:25 27:2,9 
29:3,13,13,14 
32:11 33:7,12 
33:18,19,19 
35:19 36:5 
37:5 38:8,18 
39:4,11,13,25 

deliberate 7:3 
deliberately 9:3 
9:7 10:23 15:7 
27:18,21 37:25 

D 3:1
day 5:19 26:11 

Defender 1:21 
defense 4:6 

Department
1:18 17:1 

14:16 
D

curiae 1:20 2:7 

depart 20:12 

25:25 39:13 

24:13 

39:13 

35:19 

26:17

counsel's 4:6 

34:18 

country 12:24 
course 17:4 

days 26:17
deal 30:20 35:25 
dealing 25:1

38:16

depend 11:10 
deposition 10:9 
deter 27:8 28:14 

28:14,18 

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

determination 

double-edged 

37:12 

35:2 

determine 22:8 
deterrence 4:23 

doubt 12:20 

17:23 

4:24 11:23 
15:2 18:21 
19:6 24:8 

downside 27:17 
drawn 10:21 
due 10:10 
deterrent 11:25  D.C 1:8,19 

15:14 17:12,16 
24:10 27:4,24 
28:6,9,9 36:17 
deterrents 11:14 

17:11 

device 7:11,14 
difference 6:12 
7:8 9:25 36:25 

different 4:8 
23:15 24:2 
25:3 30:3,11 
31:1,1 35:16 
differently 3:19 
disagree 10:11 
discipline 16:4,7 

16:14 17:11 
18:20 

disciplined 16:8 

18:23 

discuss 10:25 
disincentive 

36:15 

dispute 37:6 
distinct 5:17 
distinction 9:14 
9:17 34:1,10 

distinctions 9:17 
distinguishes 

distinguishing 

33:13 

4:1,7 

distort 15:11 
distorting 23:12 
distortion 23:13 
dividing 8:17 
doing 6:15 18:23 
DONNIE 1:6 
Doser 26:15,15 

39:12 

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 28:20

29:9

Edge 1:21 2:8 
24:19,20,22
25:14,18 26:8 
26:10 27:1,10
28:8,17 29:18 
30:3 31:8 32:3 
32:14,25 34:2 
34:15,25 35:5 
35:18 36:14,24
37:9,19

effect 3:25 4:8 
11:25 16:3,3 
27:24 28:10 
38:19 

effectively 12:11 

39:1,12 

effectuate 15:6 
efforts 8:9 
either 19:14 
elements 17:22 
elicit 5:22 8:15 

8:17 27:18 
elicited 10:19 

15:7 25:17,23 
26:5 

eliciting 10:23 

38:1 

elicits 9:3 27:22 
eliminate 36:13 
emphasized 

33:13 

emphasizing 

12:5 

encouraged 8:5 

engage 16:7 

28:1 

28:4 

ensure 15:5 22:6 
enter 26:22 
entered 26:21 
entire 39:8 
entirely 18:3 
entitled 32:4 
enumerated 
25:2 30:12 
equally 5:24 

39:14 

especially 16:8 
ESQ 1:15,17,21 

2:3,5,8,11 

essentially 10:8 

32:12 

ethics 17:5 
30:22 31:2 

evaluate 12:10 
12:12 13:10 
evidence 4:6 
10:4 11:5 
12:25 13:16,21 
13:23 14:3 
16:13 17:14,18 
17:21 18:3,6 
18:10 19:7 
20:7 22:5 
23:19 25:9,10 
27:15 29:12,23 
30:1 33:14,21 
33:23 34:12 
36:1,4,8,12,16
36:21 39:6,9
39:20 

exact 34:5 
exactly 6:9 21:9 

22:1 26:10 
31:13 

example 6:22 
11:15 15:24 
36:23 

exchange 19:23 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

encouraging 8:6  exclude 14:3 
enforcement 

32:19 

excluded 3:14 

12:2 15:7 
29:23,24 30:2 
33:15 39:20 
excluding 36:7 

36:12 

exclusion 9:19 
13:14,18 15:3 
22:4 23:19 
39:8 

exclusionary 
27:6 38:19 

exercised 39:11 

39:12 

existence 35:8 
extended 28:11 
extending 11:25 
extension 39:17 
extract 16:25 
extracted 28:24 

F

facilitating 35:3
fact 5:14 6:23 

find 8:10 18:25 

26:9 29:6 

first 3:21 16:17 

18:5 22:13 
24:25 27:3 
30:1 31:7,22 
36:16 

flow 15:2 
focus 17:12 35:1 

follow 16:19 

35:2 

19:3 

forth 19:4 
Fourth 4:3 5:18 

5:20,24 14:7 
17:13 25:5 
30:8 33:22 
36:22 38:22 
frankly 4:21 
10:12 14:5 

frequently 19:5 
friends 29:21 
front 12:25 13:2 

13:22 39:7 
fundamental 

38:25 

further 14:10 
15:10 24:16 
25:11 28:24 
38:6 39:22 

furthered 24:5,7
furthering 24:4 
furthermore 
10:20 13:24 

7:8 11:17 12:2 
12:20 19:24
20:3,6 28:3 
factor 36:17
factors 31:9
facts 33:3
failed 9:7
fair 15:6
fall-back 37:11
false 4:11
G 3:1
falsely 37:13 
gather 11:5 23:7 
far 30:5 
favorable 35:25  general 1:15,18
Federal 16:22 
3:5 6:12 14:6 
felt 11:19 
16:17 17:24
Fifth 5:5,15,16 
19:19 21:15

G

generally 21:20
getting 34:9

6:3 9:14,18 
10:1 17:13 
21:16,22 23:16  Ginsburg 6:11
6:21 7:17 8:2 
37:2 
8:14,20 9:13 

figure 30:15 

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

10:7 16:6,22 
32:7,15 37:10

give 9:7 13:25 
30:18,24 31:5 
31:24 38:20 
given 5:6,13 
9:21 10:20 
25:22 35:10 

happened 13:24 

19:20 26:11 
happens 7:22 

18:17 

hard 5:21 31:6 
harm 20:5 29:2 
34:3,15 35:3 
36:13 

gives 8:24 
Harris 20:10 
giving 20:5 32:8  Harvey 6:4,9 
14:9 20:11 
38:16 

32:12 

go 7:22 21:21 
23:6 35:22 

Hass 20:10 

goes 7:14 10:21  Havens 20:10 
hear 3:3 10:22 

27:21 34:2 

going 11:6,8,9 

15:15,15 19:19

26:3 30:19 
33:11 34:24 
37:23,24 38:2 
government 9:4 

12:9 18:10 
heard 18:11 

31:16 

hearings 37:21 
hears 7:7,10 
heat 37:15 
held 3:10 11:1 
helpful 32:2 

government's 

9:23 11:17 
13:19 17:20 
18:5 20:9 23:6  helps 36:8 
Henry 17:3 
23:11 
high 15:12 17:19 
holdings 14:6 
homes 25:7 
Honor 4:15 

10:5 15:8 
17:15,19 20:8 
23:2,20 24:2 
24:11 39:21 

grand 9:22 
great 24:9 
greater 24:7 
greatly 15:1 
guaranteed 
22:11,15 

guarantees 22:5 

23:23 

guess 8:19 24:24 

25:25 26:19 
28:8 36:10 
guilt 23:8,10 
guy 31:16 
H 

handled 38:4 
happen 29:15,16 

10:11 27:1,10 
28:17 29:18 
31:9 32:14,25 
34:2 35:5,21 
36:14,25 37:19 
39:16 

Hudson 15:24 
hung 21:14 
hurt 11:20 

I 
idea 29:17 
illegal 25:9 
illegally 36:4,21 
illustrates 38:25 
immunity 9:22 
impeaching 5:1 
impeachment 

3:12,21 6:8 
8:21 9:1,5,10 
10:6,17 11:8 
12:1 13:9,14 
14:22 15:9,18 
18:2 19:8 
22:21 23:10 
24:1,1,9,15 
27:5,8 28:7 
29:24 30:2,10 
33:15 34:12 
36:8,12,20,22 
importance 12:8 
important 11:22 

20:18 

impression 

16:17 

inadmissible 

inasmuch 35:24 

incentive 27:12 

8:24 

36:14 

27:15 

incentives 10:12 

11:5,20 13:1 

include 4:10 

12:1 

including 14:8 
inconsistent 

14:5 35:8,11 
inconsistently 
10:18 11:11 
18:7 

incorporated 

31:3 

incredibly 20:18 
incurred 19:10 
indicated 7:2 
indicative 35:9 
indistinguisha... 

34:13 

29:13 

inform 6:17 
informant 5:21 
7:7 10:22,24 
11:12,15 13:7 

13:19 16:20 
19:22,23,24 
20:1 25:16 
27:18,20,20,21 
28:2 31:11 
35:19 37:18 

informants 

11:20 12:22 
26:2 27:13 
28:14 

informant's 
12:13 13:18 
19:21 21:12 
information 

6:19 13:7 21:8 
informed 12:13

infrequently 

16:15 

initiate 6:6 
inside 6:15,18 
instances 16:14 
instruct 28:2,4 
instruction 21:4 
instructions 

14:1,1 

instructs 16:24 

intentionally 

27:18 

37:13 

interest 24:3,4 

37:1 

26:4 

interested 25:21 

interests 38:13 

38:17 

internal 16:4,6 
interrogate 6:17 
interrogation 

6:7 31:11 33:6 
interrupt 37:17 
intimidating 

intricacies 5:4 
introduce 29:11 
introduced 
21:17 23:2 
introduction 

individual 25:12 

32:20 

27:5


invoked 6:7 
invoking 33:7 
involuntary 
3:15 24:14 
32:17 33:4 
involved 6:25 
involves 30:11 
issue 19:4 20:23 

37:24 
J

J 1:21 2:8 24:20 
Jackson 4:4 6:3 

17:14 30:9 

jail 8:3,4 11:15 

19:22,25 

jailbird 6:19 

7:20 

jailhouse 26:2 
January 1:9 

26:12,13,22,23 

job 21:6 
judge 13:21,25 

37:12 

judgment 24:17 
jury 9:22 12:9 

12:10,13,18,25 
13:2,3,11,22
18:10 20:18
21:2,6,10 39:7 
Justice 1:18 3:3 

3:8 4:13,25
5:15 6:11,21
7:17 8:2,14,20
9:13 10:7
14:12,18 15:13 
16:6,22 17:2 
18:14,22,25
19:11,16 20:2 
20:22 21:13 
22:1,10,14,23
23:4 24:18,22 
25:12,15,19
26:9,24 27:2 
27:25 28:13
29:4,20 30:13 

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

31:12 32:7,15 
33:12 34:8,21 
35:1,12 36:6 
36:18 37:6,10 
38:8 39:14,25 
Justice's 18:15 

K 

Kan 1:16,22 
Kansas 1:3 3:4 

4:17 16:16 
kind 27:12,15 
27:23 31:2,2 
36:3 37:17 
38:3 

kinds 29:1 37:23 
know 7:17 10:14 
12:15 15:15,19 
16:16 18:1,23 
19:5 20:14 
21:9 25:23 
26:7,10,11,13 
31:14 32:3,4,7 
33:25 35:9,16 
36:10,10 

knowing 26:4 
knowledge 13:1 
known 33:2,5 
knows 9:3 
Kuhlman 16:19 

17:3 19:4 

Kuhlmann 8:18 

10:21 11:1 

L 

largely 36:24 
law 5:22 28:1 

29:16 

level 16:22 
lie 15:20 19:12 

22:17 

likes 35:16 
limit 4:6 34:4 
limitations 17:7 
limiting 14:1 

16:4 21:4 

line 8:17 10:20 
listening 7:14 

16:20 

listens 7:7,9 
litigated 37:24 
litigation 34:17 

35:23 38:3 
little 21:14 

27:17 29:16 
logical 39:17 
long 12:24,24 
22:16 24:13 
27:11,23 

looked 25:20 
looking 23:25 
looks 5:8 
lose 20:3 
loss 29:19 
lot 16:18 
lying 35:15 

M

making 9:13 
17:15 19:7 

manner 27:13 

28:15,21 36:16 

manual 16:23 

17:2 

marginal 36:17 
Massiah 3:18 

lawyer 26:1,1 

4:2,8 8:18 9:4 
30:17,18,19,20 
10:2,21 
30:24 31:5,17  mate 8:3,4 
31:17,19,21,23  matter 1:11 7:16 
31:25 32:4 
lead 24:7 
leads 36:11 
letting 20:14 
let's 8:11 

1:21 2:8 24:20 
McAllister 3:5,6 

matters 5:18 
MATTHEW 

14:3 40:3 

3:8 4:15 5:3,16 
6:12,21 7:21 
8:7,16,25 9:16 
10:10 16:18 
17:24 19:19 
21:15 38:9,10 
38:12 39:16 

McCALLIST... 

1:15 2:3,11 
mean 13:15 

15:18,23 17:10 
19:19 21:6,19 
22:18 28:8 
29:15 31:22 
32:9 36:8,9 

meaning 22:10 
means 17:20 

23:18,21 
meet 17:21 
meetings 7:1 
meets 18:5 
memo 25:19 
mention 11:14 
mentioned 21:5 
mere 7:14 35:8 
merely 33:9 
Messiah 5:22 
Michigan 4:4 

6:3,4 14:9 
15:24 29:8 
38:16 

mind 30:15 
mini 37:17 
minimal 4:23 

19:6 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
nature 28:22 

34:3 

nearly 29:7 
necessarily 4:20 

33:8 34:25
35:9

necessary 3:23

5:13

need 17:12
negotiate 35:25
never 21:9 29:10 

29:16 31:21

Nicks 38:24
NICOLE 1:17

2:5 14:14

Nix 14:9 38:15 

39:3

normal 13:15
normally 29:15
nosey 11:19
noted 16:18

17:24 19:19 
numerous 12:5

O
O 2:1 3:1 
oath 39:15
obtain 27:16 
28:25 36:15 
obtained 3:11 

3:17,22 4:2 7:4 
14:21 22:20
23:17 36:21
39:20

minutes 38:9 
Miranda 4:3 5:6  obtaining 5:12

6:17 7:19 8:24  obtains 36:3
9:6 10:3 14:7 
obvious 11:17
21:19 30:9 
occur 4:14 6:1 
32:8,12 38:23 

28:21

misconduct 25:9  occurred 26:20
missed 22:12 
Model 17:4 
murder 12:18 

occurs 4:19
22:24 23:1
25:8 28:23

12:19 

offenses 19:22
officer 6:13,15 

6:16,23 7:9,23 
7:25 8:15 9:7 
18:22 32:19
officers 16:7
19:3 28:1
32:18,22 33:5 

okay 22:16
once 30:19
ones 33:14
operate 4:24
10:3 13:24
37:14

opportunities

16:5

options 4:6
oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 

14:14 24:20

order 26:21
ordinary 13:23
outcome 34:16
outside 6:16,16
8:23,25 34:14 
outweighs 15:1

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 27:3 
parallel 5:15,16

9:11

paraphrase

38:24

paraphrasing

39:4

part 10:13 37:20 
particular 5:4

31:10 33:3
passive 8:3,5

16:20

pause 34:21
pay 15:12 17:19 

39:19

pays 20:9
people 19:12,13

25:7

percent 12:23
period 25:25

30:18

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

12:2,17 14:23 
18:16 21:1 
22:19 28:20 
29:5,11 38:19 

perjured 35:4 
perjury 3:23 

potential 4:23 

13:18 

23:12,13,22 
24:4 37:4 39:6 

4:10 12:7 
13:20 15:1 
23:14 24:6 
35:7,9 

Potentially 7:21  Professional 
practically 

17:4 

32:16 

precise 9:11 
precisely 12:21 

permit 21:21 
permitting 3:21  presence 7:2 
person 13:23 

29:14 

29:12 

questioned 

proffered 39:6 
prohibit 21:24 
prohibiting 27:4  questioner 
prohibition 7:18 
proof 18:5 
prophylactic 

questioning 
7:19 32:24 

11:16 

17:6,8,9 

present 6:25 
10:24 12:6 
presented 6:2 

persuasive 20:4 
prosecutions 
Petitioner 1:4 
1:16,20 2:4,7 
33:17 34:7 
2:12 3:7 14:17  presenting 4:11  prosecution's 
38:11 

preservation 

28:20 

11:7 

30:9 

questions 8:23 
11:18 14:10 
18:1 24:16 
30:15 38:6 
39:22 

prosecutor 17:5  quite 12:11 
25:20 36:7 

37:4 

24:23 

7:9,19,23 

pretend 6:18 
pretending 6:13 

picked 7:13 
piece 36:1 
place 36:16 
plea 35:25 36:2 
please 3:9 14:19  pretrial 10:8 
37:20 38:3 
pretty 16:15 
prevail 29:25 
prevent 3:23 
previous 17:17 

point 4:23 18:9 
23:14 33:20 
36:10 38:25 
pointed 35:14 
points 38:12 
police 5:6,21 6:6  price 15:12 
17:19 20:8 
39:19 

18:11 

17:8 19:20 
27:12,16,17,19 
37:15 39:19 
protected 37:1 
protects 39:5 
prove 23:8 
provide 15:5 
proving 17:21 

23:10 

provision 34:6 
purpose 9:24 

14:8 37:2,4 
primary 12:7 

15:4 22:6,6,14 
27:24 

6:13,15,16,18 
7:9,17,23 8:15 
8:22 10:12,14 
11:4 15:14,24 
16:3,7,19 
17:11,25 18:20  prior 18:8 19:21 
18:22 19:3 
25:8 27:16 
28:25 32:8,18 
32:19,21,21,24  prison 19:13 
33:2,5 36:15 
37:25 39:18 
Portash 9:21 

primarily 12:17  purposes 3:13 
3:15 4:17 5:1 
6:8 7:16 9:6,10 
11:2 13:15 
14:22 15:9,19 
19:8 21:25 
22:22 24:9,15 
28:7 30:2,10 
33:16 36:12,22 
38:22 39:10 
put 13:19,22 
puts 36:4,5 

20:11,15,17 
22:21 23:7 
35:8,10 

probative 20:19 
problem 29:4 

35:17 

33:24 

30:5 

problems 24:25  putting 12:25 

position 4:18 
18:9 19:13 
24:25 37:22 

possessions 25:7 
possible 35:18 
post 16:20 

33:20 35:14 

procedure 13:16 

13:24 

process 15:5,11 
19:9 22:7 23:9 

p.m 40:2 
Q 

question 3:16 

4:15,21,22 5:4 

R

R 1:15 2:3,11 
3:1,6 38:10 

rarely 29:10,10
RAY 1:6
real 16:2 22:10 
realize 4:16

39:17

really 11:18
14:6 17:25
18:16 20:8
29:19 31:4
32:17

reason 14:2

20:12 24:12
27:11 32:18
35:15

reasonable

12:20 17:22
31:24

reasons 3:21
10:13 16:18
35:10

rebuttal 2:10
13:10 14:11
18:2 21:17
28:12 38:10,13

received 12:14
19:23 26:25

recognized 9:20 

11:15 15:23 
20:9 

recording 7:11 

7:13 

reflexively 

21:11 

refuting 22:17 
regard 11:13 

35:7 

regarding 38:3 
relationship 
29:3 37:5 

relevant 13:8 

26:14 

reliable 12:23 
relying 33:20 
remainder 
14:11 38:7 

remaining 38:9 
remains 10:5 

14:2 

remedy 22:9 
remember 

11:23 32:10 
remind 13:12 
remove 36:15 
reported 20:23 
representations

29:21 

represented 

10:9 17:6,8,9
25:13,13,15
32:11 

represents

28:19 

requiring 39:8 
reserve 14:11 

38:7 

resolved 4:21 
respect 4:7 5:17 

5:18 10:1,10
20:19 36:20 

respectfully

39:23 

Respondent

1:22 2:9 4:19 

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

24:21 

Respondent's 

14:24 

responsible 

result 13:17 

27:19 

36:19 

resulting 4:5 
results 5:2 10:4 
reverse 39:23 
reversed 24:17 
right 4:9,10 6:5 

2:5 14:13,14 
14:18 15:22 
16:12 17:1 
18:19,24 19:2 
19:15,18 20:6 
20:25 21:13,22 
22:3,12,18,25 
23:5 

saying 12:22,23 

13:4,5,13 
22:15 30:6 
34:10 

says 9:24 25:24 

6:7 7:3 8:24 
27:6 32:15 
14:4 15:4,7,10 
22:2,11 23:4 
33:17 37:15 
25:3,6,6,17,24  SCALIA 4:13 
27:8 30:12 
32:11 33:7,16 
33:17 34:13 
36:7 38:17 
39:4,11 

4:25 5:15 
21:13 22:1,10 
22:14,23 23:4 

se 15:2 
search 12:9 25:9 

rights 6:18 

34:11 

ROBERTS 3:3 

14:12 15:13 
24:18 27:2 
29:20 33:12 
34:8,21 35:1 
35:12 36:6 
38:8 39:25 

26:13 

second 3:25 

26:17 31:3,7 
31:23,25 
secure 25:7 
see 29:4 33:25 

36:7 

segment 4:24 
self-incrimina... 

simply 5:12 8:3 
11:23 13:7,13 
14:2 24:8 
27:17 33:6 
34:4 35:21 
37:24 
sits 7:24 
situation 5:1 
16:15 21:19 
27:25 

situations 4:5 

36:21 
six 38:9 
Sixth 4:9,14 6:4 
7:5 8:1 9:14,25 
10:15 11:3 
13:14 14:3,7 
17:13 22:3,24 
23:1,15,23 
25:1,24 27:6 
28:3,5,15,22 
30:7 31:15 
33:16,24 34:3 
34:4,13 35:13 
37:3,7,23 
38:14,17,17 
39:3 

slightly 39:5 
snitch 6:14 

16:10 37:16 

sprinkling 38:14 
stand 15:20 
20:15 24:6 

standards 3:12 

19:11,16 20:2 
20:22 39:14 

story 24:2 
straightforward 

3:23 14:22 
16:1,2 

standpoint 

12:12 

starts 7:25 10:25 
State 17:4 21:4 

31:10 

strategy 34:18 
strength 33:25 
strong 10:12 
11:4 20:8 

strongly 39:13 

29:11,12 30:17  stuff 18:18 
30:19,24 31:9 
36:2,3 

subject 20:15 

38:20 

statement 4:2,19  submit 24:16 

25:22 

30:2 40:1,3 
subsequent 

5:11 6:8 8:4,13  submitted 29:23 
9:8,20 20:16 
20:17 21:24 
25:17,17,22 
26:5 27:19,22 
28:24 29:12,23 
30:1 32:12 
33:4 35:8,11 
36:1,9 37:8 
38:1 

14:25 17:16 
subverts 23:8 
sufficient 28:11 
suggest 8:9 
suggested 5:10 

substantial 

statements 3:11 
3:14,17,19,22 
5:22 7:4 10:23 
11:1 14:21,24 
15:8,9 18:8 
22:20 23:2,7 
23:17,21,24 
24:8,10,14 
26:18 27:5,7 
28:7 29:1 38:4 
39:15 

22:25 

suggesting 8:19 

10:2 21:11 

suggestive 8:13 
suggests 9:18 
supporting 1:20 

2:7 14:17 

suppose 21:20 
supposed 30:21 
supposedly 

26:17 

suppressing 

28:6,10 

suppression 
10:4 37:21 

Supreme 1:1,12 

16:16 

surprising 29:9 
switch 23:25 
sword 35:2 
system 28:19 

T

30:5 37:1 

snitches 16:8,24 
root 22:14 
snitch's 33:20 
rule 3:17 4:2,4 
societal 14:25 
9:2,12,18 12:1 
solely 11:8 12:16 
13:13 14:23 
solicitation 7:4 
15:2 16:19 
Solicitor 1:15,17  States 1:1,12,19 
19:3 24:13 
somebody 33:10 
2:6 3:18 4:18 
27:6 30:4,4,6 
someone's 21:1 
14:15 30:22 
30:22 31:2,14 
31:15,15,16,20  shooter 12:17,21  sorry 22:12,25 
37:25 
35:4 

send 5:21 16:19 
sent 31:11 
sentence 27:3,6 
serving 19:25 
set 19:3 
sets 17:2 
setting 32:20 

State's 24:25 

13:5,6 

rules 13:15,16 
13:23 16:1,2 
17:2,5 30:9 

S 
S 2:1 3:1 
Saharsky 1:17 

sort 28:18 
so-and-so 37:16 
speak 8:6 33:10 

35:7 

side 10:9 11:23 
12:4,6 15:17 
15:22 18:16,18  speaking 33:5 
specific 16:14 
18:20 20:13 
speculate 29:19 
29:22 32:15 
speculative 11:9  STEVENS 

2:3,11 3:6 
38:10 

station 32:21 
STEPHEN 1:15 

15:1 17:25 

18:14,22,25 

silent 8:10 
similar 10:3 

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

T 2:1,1 
take 6:12 15:19 

20:14 24:5 
36:22 

taken 37:8 
talk 8:12 10:25 

17:5 26:1,3 
31:16,17 
talked 7:12 

19:21 

talking 8:21,21 
12:8 23:9,10 
23:11 24:3 
25:4,5,5 30:8 
32:9 33:2,9 

tell 8:11 
telling 7:25 

18:12 20:20 

tells 32:10 
terms 3:25 4:23 
16:3,4 17:2,7

18:20 

territory 14:8 
test 37:18 39:17 
tested 12:25 

39:6 

testified 26:16 

37:13 

testifies 3:13 

9:22 10:17,18 
11:10,11 16:11

18:7 

testify 16:11 

thing 9:2 13:12 

26:6 30:18 
31:14,19 
things 7:25 

12:15 33:19,21 
36:18 

think 4:21 5:18 
13:21 16:12,14 
17:1,11,12 
18:19 19:2,15 
20:6 24:12 
25:18 28:21 
30:4 31:8 
32:25 34:2 
35:6 36:6,6,24 
38:25 

thinking 21:10 
thinks 32:9,22 

33:9 

thought 19:5 

25:21 31:22,24 
three 3:20 24:24 
time 5:23 14:11 

18:1 25:16 
26:5,15 30:1 
30:18 31:6,24 
32:5 33:11 
37:7 38:5,7 
times 11:24 

13:20


told 8:8 11:11 

26:1 

tone 14:6 

18:7 34:20,22  Topeka 1:16,22

tradition 12:24 
34:23,24 35:23

testifying 19:25 
testimony 4:12 

training 15:25 

12:24 

5:2 8:8,15 9:24  treat 5:19 
12:16 13:10,18 
16:10 19:24 
21:12 26:14 
28:4 35:4 

38:22 

treated 3:18 

text 9:17 21:23 

22:3 

Thank 14:12 
24:18 38:8 
39:25 

trial 3:13,25 4:6 
4:20 5:11 6:2 
13:16,23 15:6 
18:6 22:5,7,11 
22:15,16,19,21 
22:24 23:3,7,8 
23:11,18 25:2 

25:6,10 28:25 
29:1 30:12 
33:16,24 34:5 
34:10,14,16,18 
35:13,22,23 
37:15,17,17 

tries 9:23 
true 9:6 22:18 

truly 9:19,19 

trustworthy 

36:20 

10:14 

19:13 

truth 12:9,9 
18:13 20:21 

truthfully 20:22 

34:23 

truth-seeking 
15:11 19:9 
try 11:5 20:5


31:10 

trying 35:25 
two 10:14 26:17 

38:12 

type 19:6 30:6 
types 39:9 
typical 13:4 

U 

unavailable 
17:15 20:7 
24:9,10 

24:6 

27:7 

up-ending 28:18 
urged 37:10 
usable 11:6 

27:14 

use 3:21 5:11 

7:4 9:22,23,24 
10:6 14:20 
15:16 16:24 
18:17 21:24 
23:7 25:10 
27:7,12,15 
28:6,11 36:11 
36:19 

U.S 16:24 
V 

v 1:5 3:4,18 4:4 
6:3,4,24 14:9,9 
15:24 39:3 

value 11:7 15:14 

27:4 28:6 

Ventris 1:6 3:4 
12:18 26:16,17 
Ventris's 12:11 

13:10 

verdict 21:9,11
verifiable 16:7 
versus 15:23 

38:15,16 
view 32:1 
vigorously 

35:19 

16:1 28:2 

31:25 

30:12 31:1,2 
33:23 34:4 
37:7 38:20 

violations 4:3,3 

4:4 6:5 27:8 
38:18 

voluntary 3:11 
3:17,19,22 4:1 
14:21,24 
W

Walder 20:10
want 11:16,18
12:15 13:19
16:19 26:3
28:13,14 31:14 
37:16 

wants 6:16

10:24 31:17 
33:10

warning 32:9 
warnings 5:6,13
7:19 8:24 9:7 
32:8,13

Washington 1:8 

1:18

wasn't 8:5 25:12 
water 38:14
way 6:19 10:2 

11:6 13:9
16:23 34:18 
35:24 38:12
39:19
ways 5:8

6:24

unchecked 15:1  violate 7:3,5 8:1 

uncounseled 

violated 31:15  Weatherford

undercover 6:23  violating 9:4 
violation 3:11 

6:25 31:11 

Wednesday 1:9
weighed 12:3

underlying 35:6 
understand 
19:17 27:3 

unfairness 39:5 
United 1:1,12,19 

2:6 3:18 4:18 
14:15 

unnecessary 

4:22 

Williams 14:9 

3:17,22 4:2,8  went 12:16 21:7 
4:14 5:2,8,11  we're 22:15
5:20,22 6:1 
7:11,15,22 
10:4,15 11:3 
14:21 21:15,18  willingness 36:2
22:24 23:1 
25:2,8 27:23 
28:21,22,23 

38:15 39:3
willing 4:17

witnesses 39:9

witness 9:21 

20:4

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

6 

6 27:3 

witness's 21:1 
wonder 29:4 
wondering 

37:14 

wording 34:5 
work 12:21 
25:10 29:2 
worked 39:1 
works 5:21 39:1 
worst 18:16,17 
wouldn't 7:7,10 

7:10,16 18:1 

wrong 6:6 
X 

x 1:2,7 

Y 

Yeah 35:12 
years 24:1 29:6 

0 

07-1356 1:5 3:4 

1 
100 12:23 
11:15 1:13 3:2 
12:01 40:2 
14 2:7 
16th 26:12 
17th 26:20 
2 
20 29:6,7 
20th 26:13,21 
2004 26:12 
2009 1:9 
21 1:9 
21st 26:22 
24 2:9 
27th 26:23 
3 

3 2:4 
38 2:12 

5 

50 24:1 

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

