Official - Subject to Final Review

   IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
JOHN D. ASHCROFT, FORMER          :
ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL.,         :
            Petitioners           :
       v.                         :  No. 07-1015
JAVAID IQBAL, ET AL.              :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Wednesday, December 10, 2008

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Solicitor General,
   Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
   the Petitioners.
ALEXANDER A. REINERT, ESQ., Yonkers, N.Y.; on behalf
   of the Respondents.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                     C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                      3
ALEXANDER A. REINERT, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondents                     28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     58

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                           (10:04 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 07-1015, Ashcroft
versus Iqbal.
            General Garre.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE
                 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            GENERAL GARRE:  Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
            This case concerns the qualified immunity of
high-ranking government officials, like the Attorney
General of the United States and Director of the FBI,
and supervisory liability claims under Bivens based on
the alleged wrongdoing of much lower level officials.
            In concluding that the complaint in this
case was sufficient to subject the high-ranking
officials, like the Attorney General, to the demands of
civil discovery, the court of appeals erred in two
fundamental and interrelated respects.
            First, the court erred in concluding that
the complaint stated a violation of clearly established
rights by the former Attorney General and Director of
the FBI, because under this Court's precedents the
complaint fails adequately to plead the personal

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

involvement of those high-ranking officials for the
alleged discriminatory acts of lower level officials.
            And, second --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  General Garre, will you
clarify one point?  You said "fails to state" enough to
overcome qualified immunity.  But, usually, these -- the
pleading is analyzed discretely.  This is a 12(b)(6)
motion, is it?
            GENERAL GARRE:  It is a 12(b)(6) motion.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And so that tests just
the pleading.  Qualified immunity is an affirmative
defense which hasn't even been stated formally.  So
isn't it entirely conceivable that you could have a good
complaint judged from the 12(b)(6) point of view, but
when the qualified immunity defense is asserted, the
plaintiff isn't able to come up with enough to stave off
a summary judgment motion?
            GENERAL GARRE:  No, for two reasons,
Justice Ginsburg.  The first is that this Court has
recognized that a defense can be a basis for a motion to
dismiss under 12(b)(6).  It did so most recently in the
Jones versus Bock case.  And -- and it's established
practice in the Federal courts, in part because of this
decision, that appeals from the denial of a motion to
dismiss on the ground of qualified immunity are

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

appropriate.
            And, second, as the Second Circuit
recognized -- and we think it got this right -- the
question of whether a complaint adequately pleads the
personal involvement of government officials goes
directly to the question of qualified immunity -- and
the court of appeals said that on page 14a of its
decision -- because it goes to the question of whether
these defendants have violated any clearly established
rights.
            And so the question of supervisory liability
in this case we think is essential to the question of
whether or not the Attorney General and Director of the
FBI are entitled to qualified immunity.  And in denying
the government's -- the Petitioner's motion to dismiss
on the ground of qualified immunity, the district court
erroneously deprived these Petitioners of the
protections of that important defense.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, Mr. Garre, isn't
there more involved here than simply derivative
liability for the acts of others?  I -- I've got a bunch
of excerpts from the complaint, but let me just go to
one, on section -- paragraph, rather, 97.  That charges
the defendants Ashcroft and Mueller with willfully and
maliciously designing a policy.  It doesn't sound like

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

respondeat superior.  I mean, it seems to -- to charge
them directly with coming up with what these people are
complaining about.
            GENERAL GARRE:  Well, I think that that's
fair, Justice Souter.  I mean, I think that there are
two general types of allegations in this complaint.  One
set of allegations says that Petitioners came up with
this policy, and if you look at those allegations -- and
I think I would point you to paragraph 69 and paragraphs
10 and 11 -- those allegations we think describe a
policy which is neutral on its face, a policy of holding
persons determined by the FBI to be of interest in
connection with a terribly important investigation until
they have been cleared.
            And so we think that those allegations can't
be enough to sustain these -- to subject these
Petitioners to -- to civil discovery.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, why don't -- may I
just interrupt you there?  Why don't you think the
reference here in the language I just read, to designing
a policy, includes the policy which is several times
described as being one which called for holding -- for
Arab Muslim men of certain countries of origin without
reference to any penal purpose?  I mean, that -- I think
that is adequately described in there as part of the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

policy.
            GENERAL GARRE:  I think if you look at the
complaint, that -- that interpretation doesn't hold up.
And in particular, I would point you to paragraph 48,
which is on page 164a of the joint appendix -- I'm
sorry, the petition appendix.  And what that paragraph
says is that these allegedly discriminatory
determinations, classifications, were made by FBI
officials in the field, not Petitioners here, the former
Attorney General and director of the FBI.  And
importantly, these determinations were made, quote, and
this comes from paragraph 48, "without specific criteria
or uniform classification system."
            And so that's what's going on here.  You've
got a complaint that alleges that specific lower level
officials are making these determinations.  That's in
paragraphs 50 and 51.  You've got a complaint alleging
that these determinations are being made on the basis of
ad hoc criteria.  That's page 48.  And then you have
these overarching allegations that the Attorney General
and the Director of the FBI knew about, approved, and
condoned these discriminatory conduct of much lower
level officials.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You don't -- you
don't dispute that, whatever the policy was, that it was

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

approved and condoned by the Attorney General and the
Director of the FBI?
            GENERAL GARRE:  We've accepted that at some
level that this complaint maintains, and it's in
paragraph 69, that there was a policy of holding
suspects until they -- the suspects were determined to
be of interest by the FBI, until they were cleared by
the FBI in connection with this investigation.  That
policy we have not disputed, and that policy we think is
a -- is a factually neutral, perfectly lawful law
enforcement response to the 9/11 attacks, resulting in
--
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, it may -- it
may very well be, but isn't it, for purposes of a
complaint, sufficient to raise a due process claim by
saying what they say?  In other words, you -- you may
have a very good defense to it.  You may have something
that does not ever get beyond -- get them beyond the
point of summary judgment.  But for them simply to
charge that there was a policy in which they picked up
people and they held them until they were cleared, i.e.,
sort of demonstrated to be innocent in some way, that at
least on the face of it seems to -- to state a due
process problem under the Fifth Amendment, doesn't it?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Not with respect to the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Petitioners here, the former Attorney General and the
Director of the FBI, because -- and I think in
evaluating --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Even -- even if, as the
Chief Justice said, they knew and condoned the policy?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Well, the question is which
policy, what policy?  And if you look at the complaint,
I think the only policy that the allegations bear out
with respect to the Attorney General and the Director of
the FBI is a policy described in paragraph 69 of holding
suspects until cleared.  The --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, you may be -- you --
I mean, you may be right.  I think there's -- there's a
lot of tension in the -- in the allegations here.  I --
I grant you that.  But isn't the proper way to deal with
those tensions at this stage to file a motion for a more
definite statement and find out for sure?
            GENERAL GARRE:  No.  I mean, certainly that
is one option.  I mean, the Court mentioned that in the
Crawford-El case, and that's an option.  But just as in
the Bell Atlantic case, where that was an option, too,
and where the defendants in that case did not avail
themselves of their opportunity to file a motion for a
more definite statement, the Petitioners here did not do
so and they were not required to do so.  They had a

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

different option under the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure to move for dismissal under 12(b)(6).  They
exercised that option, and the complaint -- the
complaint should be dismissed because it fails to state
a claim against those individuals.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  The difference, it -- and
maybe this isn't a sufficient difference.  But the
difference in my mind between this and Bell Atlantic was
that, in Bell Atlantic you had a set of allegations in
which in -- in effect it was an either-or choice.  There
were two possibilities consistent with the allegations
in Bell Atlantic.  One was a conspiracy possibility; one
was a -- a lawful parallel conduct possibility.  And
there just wasn't any way to pick one as being a more
probable interpretation of what they were getting at.
            Here the problem is not so much an either-
or choice as to which we are clueless, but a just
vagueness or uncertainty.  Does the -- Does the talk
about the -- the racial criterion go to the policy as
devised or the policy as implemented?  And so on.  And
it seems to me that here we're -- we're in a kind of
conceptually a squishier situation and it might be
better to get a more definite statement than to say,
well, you -- you've got to make a choice, and there's no
way to make a choice.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            GENERAL GARRE:  That's one of the reasons
why I think it's important to distinguish between the
different sets of claims.  I think the general claim of
a policy of holding suspects until cleared is much more
like the Bell Atlantic situation, where you have got
factually neutral allegations, perfectly lawful law
enforcement conduct to have a policy that says, FBI
agents, if you determine these people are of interest,
hold them until they are cleared so that we are not
releasing people that are potentially suspects or
wrongdoers in this investigation.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  General Garre, I think
that the Bell Atlantic case -- and -- and I'm sure that
Justice Souter will correct me if I'm wrong about this,
but most of it is about what it takes -- what are the
essential elements of a Sherman section 1 charge.  And
there's a big mistake that the pleaders are making; that
is, there has to be an agreement, and they haven't
alleged an agreement.
            This case seems to be quite different.  And
I think you have taken Bell Atlantic, frankly, for more
than is there.  That is, twice -- at least twice in the
opinion, the Court says, we are not developing any
heightened pleading rules.  Form 11 is as good today as
it was yesterday.  What we are talking about is a

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

missing -- is an essential element to a substantive
claim for relief.  I thought that's what --
            GENERAL GARRE:  And we're not asking for a
heightened pleading standard, Justice Ginsburg.  I think
what's missing here fundamentally is a substantive
requirement of the cause of action -- Bivens -- for
supervisory liability which is an affirmative link.
Subsidiary allegations suggesting a plausible
affirmative link between the discriminatory actions
allegedly taken by much lower level officials in the
field and the Director of the FBI and the Attorney
General of the United States.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That -- that sounds
like an argument on the merits of the Bivens claim,
rather than an argument going to qualified immunity.
            GENERAL GARRE:  It -- it's not -- I mean, in
-- in a similar way that this Court considered the scope
of a Bivens cause of action in the Wilkie case recently
and in the Hartman case recently.  In both of those
cases the Court recognized that the scope of the Bivens
cause of action goes directly to the question of
qualified immunity.
            And here, in order to evaluate whether the
pleadings are adequate against the Attorney General and
the Director of the FBI, you have to know what the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

substantive standard under Bivens is for a supervisory
liability type claim.  You have to know -- just as you
did in Bell Atlantic, you had to know the substantive
standard of antitrust law in this kind of context.  Here
you have to know the substantive standard of what's
required to subject the Attorney General of the United
States or the Director of the FBI to potential
liability, civil damages, burdens of civil discovery,
for supervisory liability for the claims of much lower
level officials.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  How does -- how does this
work in an ordinary case?  I should know the answer to
this, but I don't.  It's a very elementary question.
Jones sues the president of Coca-Cola.  His claim is the
president personally put a mouse in the bottle.  Now, he
has no reason for thinking that.  Then his lawyer says:
Okay, I'm now going to take seven depositions of the
president of Coca-Cola.  The president of Coca-Cola
says:  You know, I don't have time for this; there's no
basis.  He's -- he's -- I agree he's in good faith, but
he's -- there is no basis.  Okay, I don't want to go and
spend the time to answer a question.
            Where in the rules does it say he can go to
the judge and say, judge -- his lawyer will say -- my
client has nothing to do with this; there's no basis for

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

it; don't make him answer the depositions, please?
            GENERAL GARRE:  And I think it would be --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Where does it say that in
the rules?
            GENERAL GARRE:  It -- it says that, as this
Court interpreted it, in Rule 8 of the rules, Justice
Breyer.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  In Rule 8?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Yes, because in Rule 8 --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I thought Rule 8 was move
for a more definite statement.
            GENERAL GARRE:  No.  Rule 8 is the -- is the
plain statement showing entitlement to relief.  It is
the rule interpreted in Bell Atlantic, and there the
Bell Atlantic Court said that the plaintiff had the
obligation to show a plausible entitlement to relief.
And --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  He shows a plausible
entitlement.  He says -- there's no doubt it's a claim
if the president of Coca-Cola did put the mouse in the
bottle.  It's just there is no basis for thinking that.
            GENERAL GARRE:  It's --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  So he wants to go to the
judge and say:  I've set out a claim here; I copied it
right out of the rules.  All right?  Now, what allows

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

the judge to stop this deposition?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Rule 8 does, as interpreted
--
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Where?
            GENERAL GARRE:  -- in Bell Atlantic, because
that is not a plausible entitlement of a claim to relief
--
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  But, Mr. Garre, you are
using the word "plausible" or you're taking the word
"plausible" out of Bell Atlantic, I think, and you are
using it to mean something that probably can be proven
to be true.  Bell Atlantic drew that distinction.  They
-- the plausibility there is a plausibility that if they
prove what they say, they will -- they will establish a
violation.
            GENERAL GARRE:  I certainly agree with you.
You don't have to show that it probably is, but you have
to show facts suggesting -- above the speculative level.
And just as in Bell Atlantic --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  I -- I think you are
right that if somebody makes just a totally bizarre
allegation that nobody in the world could take
seriously, that -- that the issue can be raised.
            But in Justice Breyer's case, the -- that --
that may be the case if the claim is that the president

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

of Coke was -- was personally putting mouses in bottles.
But the claim, it seems to me, that the Attorney General
or the Director of the FBI was establishing a policy of
no release until cleared or a policy that centered on
people with the same characteristics as the hijackers
does not have that kind of bizarre character to it and,
I think, would not run afoul of the -- of the
plausibility standard.
            GENERAL GARRE:  Well, we certainly think --
I mean, in Bell Atlantic, the Court said common economic
experience would -- would support its determination in
that case.  We think here, and I think the brief filed
by former attorney generals from several different
administrations makes this point as well, that common
government experience would suggest that the Attorney
General of the United States is not involved in the sort
of microscopic decisions --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, I would agree, but
this is about as far from common government operation as
one can get.
            GENERAL GARRE:  The -- and I think that gets
to one of the fundamental problems with the Second
Circuit decision, is it held the extraordinary context
of the 9/11 attacks and the aftermath of those attacks
against the Petitioners in this case.  And that's

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

problematic, not only from the qualified-immunity
perspective of what it's going to be like for officials
next time they have to --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Oh, I know, but the courts
can't --
            GENERAL GARRE:  -- deal with something like
that.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  The courts can't ignore the
extraordinary circumstances, either.
            GENERAL GARRE:  But it's problematic because
you have to look at the reality of the job of the
Attorney General of the United States and the Director
of the FBI.  In general, these are people who are
responsible not only for the litigating divisions within
the Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Agency, enforcing
countless laws.  These are people who have
extraordinarily busy schedules.  And ordinary --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm sorry, I just don't
have the answer to my question.  I must not have said it
properly.  Imagine, way before Twombly -- these rules
have been in existence for decades.  So we go back years
ago.  Certainly, there have been many cases where, for
whatever reasons, the plaintiffs included allegations
that were just factually very unlikely.  I want to know

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

where the judge has the power to control discovery in
the rules.  That's -- I should know that.  I can't
remember my civil procedure course.  Probably, it was
taught on day 4.
            (Laughter.)
            GENERAL GARRE:  Well, Rule 26 governs
discovery, Justice Breyer.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, I see that.  It says
a person has a right to go and get discovery.  It
doesn't say they only control it under certain
provisions which don't seem to me to apply to the truly
absurd discovery.  There must be some power a judge has.
            And the second question I'm going to ask
you, when you tell me what that power is, which
apparently I'm not going to find out -- but -- but
whatever that power is, which must be there, why doesn't
that work to solve your problem?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Well, the power to -- to
govern discovery doesn't solve the problem for the same
reason that it didn't in Bell Atlantic.  The Court
specifically said we are not going to rely on district
courts to weed out potentially meritless claims because
we recognize the burdens that discovery can impose in
the civil and in trust contexts.  And those burdens are
multiplied many times here where you are talking about

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

subjecting to -- subjecting high level government
official to the burdens of civil discovery.
            I think fundamentally we think you don't get
to the question of how do district judges control
discovery, because they haven't gotten through the
gateway of pleading an adequate claim.  And if I can
give you the substantive rule that we think is on point
here -- this Court, in the Rizzo case, which is a
section 1983 case, considered the question of claims
against high-ranking officials, the Mayor of the City of
Philadelphia, the Police Commissioner of the City of
Philadelphia, for alleged wrongdoing by individual
police officers there.
            And there -- in that case, the Court held
that a plaintiff under section 1983 has to establish, as
a matter of law, an affirmative link between the acts of
the -- the subordinates and the higher-level officials.
And we think that that substantive rule in section 1983
at a minimum carries over to the Bivens context.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, what -- I mean, my
basic question, which I really want to hear the answer
to, is the Attorney General is very busy and what he
does is very important.  The president of Coca-Cola is
very busy.  The president of General Motors is very busy
-- and very busy at the moment.  And what he --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE BREYER:  What they are doing is very
important.  There are quite a few people in this country
who aren't even in the government, and what they do is
very important and they are very busy.  And so if there
is something in these rules that allows people to bring
suits without any factual foundation, even though the --
the complaint says there is --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How about --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I'll bet those people are
being harassed --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How about Rule 11 to take
care of Justice Breyer's problem?  The judge would say
to the lawyer:  Now, you signed this pleading, and when
you made -- you signed it, you made certain
representations, and I'm going to read the Riot Act to
you if it turns out that this is a frivolous petition.
            GENERAL GARRE:  Sure.  That's one
protection, Justice Ginsburg.  And --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Reading the Riot --
            GENERAL GARRE:  And this Court --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Reading the Riot Act
to the lawyer is protection against the Attorney General
and the Director of the FBI after they're hauled in for
discovery or subjected to depositions and the judge

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

finds out --
            GENERAL GARRE:  We --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry, Mr.
Garre.
            -- the judge finds out that there wasn't in
fact a sufficient basis for it, and that -- that will
show them, if they get read the Riot Act by a judge?
            GENERAL GARRE:  It's certainly not adequate
protection, Mr. Chief Justice.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I was responding to
Justice Breyer's Coca-Cola president.  I think Rule 11
would work quite well to answer that.
            GENERAL GARRE:  I would have thought that
this Court's decision in Bell Atlantic put an end to
those sorts of claims where the court --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, Mr. Garre, it seems
to me you are really arguing -- I am very sympathetic to
the argument -- that if there was no plausible claim in
Bell Atlantic, in which there was a direct allegation of
a conspiracy in violation of section 1, was rejected
because the Court thought it implausible, a fortiori
this claim is implausible because it's got exactly the
same problems in that you don't want to subject these
important people to all the inconvenience of discovery.
It seems to me these cases are very, very similar.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            GENERAL GARRE:  Absolutely, Justice Stevens.
And certainly that's our position.  We think it's --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Of course, in both of the
cases, the job of the district judge would have been
made much easier if one of the defendants had filed an
affidavit denying those allegations, but nobody has done
that in either case.
            GENERAL GARRE:  No one did it in either
case, but in both cases the defendants are entitled to
dismissal.  I think this case is even stronger, not only
because we think that the factual allegations are less
plausible, but because we have the substantive rule of
law that comes from Bivens, that you have to establish
the affirmative link of alleged wrongdoing between much
lower level officials, the FBI agents in the field here.
And the Attorney General of the United States and the
Director of the FBI, common experience shows, simply
aren't involved in those sorts of granular decisions.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I have two questions -- I
have two questions that might be related.  You began by
saying that you had two points for us.
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You said the first was
that the court erred in saying that there was a -- a
violation had been alleged.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            GENERAL GARRE:  And --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And I wanted to reach the
second, and I was wondering if the second would address
this sub-question that I have.  If we were to say that
Twombly is to be confined to the antitrust and
commercial context, would -- would that destroy your
case?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Well, let me answer both
those questions:  First, the second point I wanted to
add is interrelated with the first, and that's that the
court of appeals applied an overly expansive conception
of the supervisory liabilities available under Bivens.
And, I think, in order to evaluate the adequacy of the
pleadings, this Court has to have in mind the standards
of supervisory liability that Bivens applied.  And we
think the that court of appeals applied an overly
expansive concept of that under Rizzo and other -- the
other precedents we cite in our case.
            And second:  No, our case would not go away
if this Court got rid of Bell Atlantic or if this Court
limited Bell Atlantic to the antitrust context.  We
don't think the Court should do that.  When the Court
dispensed -- disavowed the broad no-set-of-facts
language from Conley v. Gibson, we took the Court to be
saying:  We are disavowing that for all cases under Rule

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

8; we are not limiting it to parallel conduct in the
section 1 of the Sherman Act context.
            So I think that Bell Atlantic's explication
of Rule 8 and the disavowal of the no-set-of-facts
language, which, after all, is the test under which the
district court had to resort to, to sustain the claims
in this case --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I do have the same
lingering doubts as Justice -- or concerns or questions
as Justice Breyer.  It's hard for me to believe we had
to wait for Twombly in order to have this, and it seems
to me Rule 11 is not applicable here because it simply
works after the fact.
            GENERAL GARRE:  Well, we don't think you had
to wait for Twombly to get rid of those claims.  We
think that many of those claims would dismiss.  They
certainly would have been dismissed in the section 1983
context under this Court's decision in Rizzo.
            And we could talk about what it would be
like for claims against the president of Coca-Cola or
Ford Motor Company, but really we're here talking about
claims against the highest level officials of our
government, who everyone agrees are entitled to the
doctrine of qualified immunity, a doctrine that was
designed, at the end of the day, to protect the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

effective functioning of our government.  These
officials are entitled at least to the protections that
this Court found appropriate for civil antitrust
defendants.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  General Garre, there was
a reference, I think, in Judge Gleason's decision in the
Eastern District to the Office of the Inspector General
report on the detainees' treatment at the Metropolitan
Detention Center.  Is there nothing in those reports
that lends some plausibility to Iqbal's claims?
            GENERAL GARRE:  We don't think so,
Justice Ginsburg.  I mean, most fundamentally,
extra-record materials, extra-complaint materials can't
make up for the deficiencies in the complaint itself.
Plaintiffs had the benefit of that 200-page report when
they brought their action in this case.  They have
amended their complaint twice already.  And so, in that
respect, they are in a much better position than the
typical plaintiffs.
            And, secondly, if you look at that report,
if you want to go outside the record and look at that
report, I would urge you to look at page 70 of the
report, which says that "we found" -- and I am quoting
from the report -- "we found that the information
provided to high-level officials suggested this 'hold

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

until cleared' policy was being applied to persons
'suspected of being involved in the'" 9/11 attacks, a
perfectly lawful law enforcement program.  And it goes
on to say that "in practice the policy may have been
applied differently in the field. "
            And the other pages I would point you to are
pages 18, 40, 47, and 158, which make clear that this --
the alleged discriminatory acts were -- were taken on an
ad hoc basis.  That's what the complaint in this case
says on page 48, where it says that FBI officials, far
removed from the Attorney General and the Director of
the FBI, were making these determinations without
criteria, without a uniform classification system.
            And we think that to go back up the chain to
suggest that the Attorney General of the United States
and Director of the FBI may be potentially subject to
civil liability, the burdens of civil litigation goes
far beyond Rule 8 as it's described in Bell Atlantic,
far beyond this Court's qualified immunity cases.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Garre, can I ask you a
factual question because I really don't know?  In the --
assume that -- that they had to go to trial on this
case, which may not be the case.  Would they be entitled
to be defended by the Department of Justice or would
they have to get private counsel?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            GENERAL GARRE:  They are being defended by
the Department of Justice, the -- the Attorney General
and Director of the FBI.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  And that applies even if
there would be a trial later on?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Yes, and that's a
discretionary determination that has been made in this
case.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  I see.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is there other
litigation, General Garre, pending with respect to the
detentions?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Yes, there are other claims.
There are also claims that have been made.  And we cite
one of these cases, the Twitty case, which we cite in
our reply.
            This case involved a prisoner who claimed
that he was transferred one -- from one prison to the
next for a retaliatory motive.  They included a claim
against the Attorney General of the United States.  And
the district court said:  Well, under the Iqbal
claim that -- under the Iqbal case, that case can go
forward, and potentially the Attorney General can be
subject to civil -- to civil discovery, which I think
underscores Judge Cabranes's point that the decision in

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

this case is a blue point -- is a blueprint for civil
plaintiffs who are challenging the implementation of
important law enforcement policies to subject the
Attorney General, the Director of the FBI, or other
high-level officials to civil discovery based on
conclusory and generally -- and general and inadequate
allegations.  If I could --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is there -- is there a
Tort Claims Act action pending or -- I don't know where
I got that impression -- arising out of these
detentions?
            GENERAL GARRE:  There are tort claims,
Federal Tort Claims Acts, asserted in this case, and
there's other parallel litigation going on in the Second
Circuit, Justice Ginsburg.
            If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, General.
            GENERAL GARRE:  Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Reinert.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALEXANDER A. REINERT
                ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
            MR. REINERT:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            I think I should start with paragraph 69 of
the complaint because I think Petitioners' treatment of

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

paragraph 69 shows why they have no coherent theory of
what a conclusory allegation is and what it's not.
Because what does paragraph 69 do?  It sets out a
policy, and it says that Petitioners approved the
policy.  Paragraph 96 does exactly the same thing.
Paragraph 69 you can find at 168 of the appendix;
paragraph 96 you can find at 172 to 173.
            In both -- in both cases it does the same
thing.  We have Petitioners approving a policy.  Now,
Petitioners here conceded at oral argument, contrary to
their reply brief but consistent with their opening
brief, that paragraph 69 states a factual allegation.
So if paragraph 69 states a factual allegation that is
entitled to be considered true, then paragraph 96 states
a factual allegation that is entitled to be considered
to be true.
            This isn't -- this case is not about ad hoc
decisions made at the low level of the Department of
Justice.  This is about a policy approved with the
knowledge of Petitioners that discriminated against
detainees.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, General Garre said
there's no question that there was a policy, and that it
was known by and approved by the Petitioners here, but
that the policy is different from the policy that you

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

allege.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, Justice --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And that's the question.
            Where -- what do you think is the most
specific allegation in your complaint as to the
Petitioners' knowledge and approval of the -- of an
illegal policy?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, paragraph 96
specifically alleges knowledge, and Rule 9(b) says you
can allege knowledge generally.  So that -- we have
established knowledge of the policy.  The policy is
described between paragraphs 47 and 94 of the complaint.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  As to paragraphs 96 and 97,
which did seem to be the most specific, are those based
on any specific information that you have concerning
Petitioners, or are they based on inferences that you
think you can draw from your allegations about what
happened and the nature of the responsibilities of the
Petitioners?
            MR. REINERT:  They are based in -- they are
based in part on the Office of Inspector General's
report about what happened after September 11th.  They
also are based on other information that we gathered in
advance of filing the -- the complaint.  But, Your
Honors, what we think Petitioners are asking us to do

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

here --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  I'm not sure that really
answered my question.  Are they based on anything
specific that you know about what the Petitioners did?
            MR. REINERT:  Yes.  We know that Petitioners
ordered a -- ordered to have certain groups targeted for
questioning, for detention.  That's all in -- some of
that's in the Office of the Inspector General's report;
some of that is in public documents referred to by some
of the amicus briefs.  We think --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Are you suggesting
General Garre's statement he just made to us -- he said
there's nothing in the Office of the Inspector General's
report that suggests that the Attorney General or the
head of the FBI were engaged in any wrongdoing?
            MR. REINERT:  Oh, I don't think that's
correct, Your Honor.  I mean, the Office of the
Inspector General's report says that from the -- from
the Department of the Attorney General -- from the
Attorney General's Office, there was a direction to make
the conditions of confinement as harsh as possible.
            That was -- that was directed to the -- BOP
Director Sawyer.  It said, we don't want them to be able
to get access to Johnny Cochran, for instance.  That
statement was made.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that's a
little bit different -- if I could interrupt you -- than
saying, make the conditions of confinement as harsh as
possible.  It's saying, make the conditions of
confinement such that they will not be able to
communicate with alleged -- alleged -- other prisoners
that -- that might be part of the same group connected
with the activities on 9/11.
            MR. REINERT:  Well -- and certainly, Your
Honor, we have also -- I mean, we have -- this case is
at a funny posture, right, because we have all this
discovery that we have obtained since the complaint was
filed which, we think, confirms the allegations in this
complaint.
            Now, we think Petitioners' position would
require us to allege facts at the complaint stage that
we could only obtain through discovery.  But, Your
Honors, some of --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, you -- you could have
said the same thing about the existence of a conspiracy
in -- in the antitrust case.  I mean, that was the
argument.  How can we prove an agreement until we have
discovery?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, the difference --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  We say you need something

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

more in order to go forward, something more than, you
know, you prevented these people from talking to Johnny
Cochran.  That's not going to do it.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, but, Justice Scalia, the
difference between this case and Bell Atlantic is
exactly what Justice Souter alluded to in his colloquy
with General Garre, which is that in -- in Bell Atlantic
there were two possible -- there were two possibilities.
A reviewing court was basically left in equipoise,
looking at the complaint in Bell Atlantic.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, there are two
possibilities here.  Number one is the possibility that
there was a general policy adopted by the high-level
officials which was perfectly valid and that whatever
distortions you are complaining about was in the
implementation by lower level officials.  That's one
possibility.
            The other possibility, which seems to me
much less plausible, is that the -- the high-level
officials themselves directed these -- these
unconstitutional and unlawful acts.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, Your Honor, we have two
different theories, right.  One is knowledge of and
approval of, and the other is direction.
            But those -- both of those possibilities are

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

unlawful possibilities.  The question is who is
responsible?  Now, Bell Atlantic doesn't -- doesn't
prohibit plaintiffs from pleading cases in the
alternative.  And if you are going to plead cases in the
alternative, it's possible, of course, that some people
will ultimately be held responsible and some won't.  But
the --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Do you agree that --
to follow up on Justice Breyer's questioning of General
Garre, do you believe that the same pleading standards
apply in the action against the president of Coca-Cola
as apply to the actions of the Attorney General and
Director of the FBI on the evening of September 11,
2001?
            MR. REINERT:  Certainly, Your Honor, I think
the same pleading standards apply.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry?
Certainly or certainly not?
            MR. REINERT:  Certainly, Your Honor, I think
the same pleading standards apply.  To the extent
Petitioners seek protection, the protection is through
the -- through the doctrine of qualified immunity.  And
they have that protection.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, why -- why isn't the
protection -- I have the number of the rule I want.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Maybe I am not understanding it.  But Rule 26(e)(2),
says -- says, among other things, that the judge can
change the number of depositions you get.  He could
reduce them to zero if, for example, he decides the
burden or the expense outweighs the likely benefit.
Can't he do that whether you are the president of Coca-
Cola or whether you are the president of Ford or whether
you are the President, or you are the Attorney General?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, certainly --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Can he do that or not?
            MR. REINERT:  No -- Justice Breyer, yes, a
district court judge can do that.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes, he can.
            MR. REINERT:  In fact, the Second Circuit
directed the district court to do that here.  I mean,
Petitioners argue as if discovery is impending against
them.  In fact, the Second Circuit's opinion quite
clearly says, you don't get discovery against
Petitioners unless you get discovery from lower level
officials that confirm the need to have discovery from
Petitioners.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, I mean, that's
lovely, that -- that the -- the ability of the Attorney
General and Director of the FBI to -- to do their jobs
without having to litigate personal liability is

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

dependent upon the discretionary decision of a single
district judge.  I mean, I thought that the protection
of qualified immunity gave them -- gave them more than
that.
            MR. REINERT:  Your -- Your Honor, it gives
them quite a bit, Justice Scalia, and they got --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It doesn't give them much,
if that's all it gives them.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, Justice Scalia, in this
case what they were permitted to argue was that the law
was not clearly established.  They argued that; they
lost that.  They were permitted to argue that they were
-- they acted objectively reasonably.  They argued that;
they lost that.  They didn't petition for cert on either
of those questions.  So they have been given the
protections afforded by qualified immunity.  What they
don't get because of qualified immunity is extra
protections not described in the rules, not approved by
Congress, not referred to by this Court in any -- in any
way.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So the pleading
standard -- let's leave the president of Coca-Cola out
of it.  The local manager of the Coca-Cola distribution
center, you can state that the same rigor required in
the complaint that applies to him also applies to the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Attorney General and the Director of the FBI in the wake
of 9/11?
            MR. REINERT:  Your Honor --
Mr. Chief Justice, the pleading standard isn't
different.  The substantive standard of liability may be
different, and that's certainly true.  I mean, one has
to allege much more to allege a claim on --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But your -- your
response then focuses solely on the merits of the
underlying claim, not any requirement of -- of
heightened pleading.
            MR. REINERT:  That's correct, Your Honor,
and we think that this Court has rejected heightened
pleading at every instance.  I mean, even in Bell
Atlantic, this Court rejected heightened pleading, and
this Court has rejected heightened pleading even in --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well I thought --
and others may know better in connection to Bell
Atlantic, but I thought in Bell Atlantic what we said is
that there's a standard, but it's an affected by the
context in which the allegations are made.  That was a
context of a particular type of antitrust violation and
that affected how we would look at the complaint.  And
here, I think you at least accept, don't you -- or I
understood from your answers to the question on Coca

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Cola that maybe you don't -- that because we're looking
at litigation involving the Attorney General and the
Director of FBI in connection with their national
security responsibilities, that there ought to be
greater rigor applied to our examination of the
complaint.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, Mr. Chief Justice,
there's no reference to that in the rules.  We think
qualified immunity provides the protection that
Petitioners are seeking.  And we think what the Second
Circuit did was balance a very difficult -- difficult
principles on both sides.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Do you -- do you
disagree with the notion that Bell Atlantic at least
established that the level of pleading required depends
on the context of the claim -- the context of the
particular case?
            MR. REINERT:  I don't -- I don't understand
Bell Atlantic to argue that the level of pleading
requires -- depends on the context of the case, but that
the substantive liability that is in the background of
the case affects what you have to plead.  And what
Petitioners are asking is to take the substantive
background of an affirmative defense and make that
affect the ability -- what you have to plead, not --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But they pleaded a
conspiracy -- they pleaded a conspiracy in Bell
Atlantic.  It wasn't a matter of not -- not setting
forth in the complaint the substance of what produced
liability.  They pleaded conspiracy.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, what this Court --
Justice Scalia, what this Court said in Bell Atlantic,
to the extent it disregarded the allegation about
agreement -- it said the problem with the agreement was
that it didn't allege what, it didn't allege who, it
didn't allege when.  And I don't think it can be said
about this complaint.  This alleges who, this alleges
what it was, this alleges --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  When?
            MR. REINERT:  -- when it occurred --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Does it say when?  Does it
say what basis?
            MR. REINERT:  In the weeks after September
11th.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I don't know on what basis
any of these allegations against the high-level
officials are made.
            MR. REINERT:  Justice Scalia, they are made
on the basis of the information that we garnered from
the Office of Inspector General's report.  What we know

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

-- what we know about --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, we'll -- we'll check
that.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Mr. Reinert --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  The Solicitor General
contests that.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  I want to throw you a
question.  I'm not sure it's a softball question.  You
can --
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  You can let me know.
            I -- I'm starting with the assumption, which
I think is -- is in Bell Atlantic, that what we are
concerned with in context is that the -- the context
tells us how specific you've got to be versus how
conclusory you've got to be, and the reason it does so
is that some allegations are -- are more likely to be
true than others depending on the context.
            Is it fair to say -- going back to Justice
Breyer's question, is it fair to say that your basic
pleading here rests on the following assumption:  That
it is more plausible that the Attorney General of the
United States and the Director of the FBI were in fact
directly involved in devising a policy with the racial
characteristics and the coercive characteristics that

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

you claim, than that the President of Coca Cola was
putting mouses in bottles?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, I think that -- I think
that is our -- our contention, Your Honor, because it's
a -- it's an allegation about a policy.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  So you would say, if -- to
the Coke question you would say, yes, they've got to get
more facts there, this is just -- this is just crazy to
think that the president is putting mice in the bottles.
            But you're saying that, so far as the close
involvement of the Attorney General and the FBI
director, it's not crazy to assume what you -- what you
say, and, therefore, you don't have to get into more
detail in order to have an adequate claim here.  Is
that --
            MR. REINERT:  We certainly don't think it's
absurd or bizarre, which is the argument that the
Petitioners raised below --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But that's also not
the --
            MR. REINERT:  I'm sorry.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Absurd and bizarre
is also not the pleading standard, and how are we -- to
follow up on Justice Souter's question -- how are we
supposed to judge whether we think it's more unlikely

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that the president of Coca-Cola would take certain
actions as opposed to the Attorney General of the United
States?
            MR. REINERT:  I think it is a problem posed
by that interpretation of Bell Atlantic.  I don't think
it's a problem that's posed by this particular case, Mr.
Chief Justice.  I think --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Of course, the problem
with the president of the Coca-Cola is the allegation
probably would be that the Coca-Cola Company has adopted
sloppy procedures in its manufacturing lines, and the
president is responsible for those procedures, and
that's why the bottles are filled with rats.
            MR. REINERT:  Well --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  That's the way you would
allege it.  You wouldn't say he did it personally.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, Justice Stevens --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  And then you would have a
similar question.
            MR. REINERT:  You probably wouldn't say he
did it personally, and there might be a respondeat
superior theory there, for liability, that we don't have
access to in the Bivens arena, which we concede; we have
to establish a link between the unconstitutional conduct
and -- and the actions of the Petitioners.  So that may

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

be how it's pleaded, and that might get it closer if
there were -- certainly if there were a policy of
putting mice in Coke bottles, that would certainly get
it closer.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  No, this is a policy of
being derelict in the sanitary conditions in the plant
and so forth and so on; therefore, mice -- mice are
getting into bottles with undue frequency, and the
president is responsible for that.  I don't see that
that's a fanciful allegation.
            MR. REINERT:  It -- I -- I don't know that
it is fanciful, Justice Stevens.  I think --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  I'm not suggesting that
Coca-Cola really does that.  Of course not, but --
            MR. REINERT:  No, certainly not.
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  But the standard theory is
that --
            MR. REINERT:  I think -- I mean, the
essential point in this case is that the Second Circuit
was faced with a dilemma.  I mean, there's a liberal
pleading standard and there's qualified immunity.  And
the Second Circuit tried to resolve it, did I think a
very good job of resolving it with the interests -- all
of the interests that Petitioners are concerned about.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

They were --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, they weren't "all"
completely -- they were not --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I was just going to
say the -- the difficulty with wrestling with the case
through the perspective of the hypothetical of the mice
in the bottles is that it's -- it's by its nature
particularly absurd, but what if the allegation is that
the president of Coca Cola is individually involved in a
particular price-fixing scheme?  Then does this case
seem so terribly different from the level of specificity
Bell Atlantic would require?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, I guess I want to
distinguish that allegation from the allegations here.
We are not alleging that the Petitioners individually
identified particular detainees as of interest or as of
high interest.  We are alleging that they either created
the policy or they knew of and approved of it.
            Now -- now, we could talk about "knew of and
approved."  As I said, under Rule 9(b), "knew of" is
established by a saying that they knew it; we can't read
9(b) any other way, and Petitioners don't suggest that
we do.
            So then we have "approved."  Now, if they
knew it, right, if we accept that they knew about this

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

policy, and we also accept paragraph 69 as Petitioners
concede we must accept it to be true, then we know that
they knew that there was this policy occurring and they
approved the policy of not releasing them --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But that's easy.  I
hope that the Attorney General and the Director of FBI
-- of the FBI knew of and approved whatever the policy
was.  What you have to show is some facts, or at least
what you have to allege are some facts, showing that
they knew of a policy that was discriminatory --
            MR. REINERT:  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- based on
ethnicity and country of origin.
            MR. REINERT:  And I think I was -- I was
trying to get there, Mr. Chief Justice, and the way I
would say it is this:  We've alleged that they knew, in
paragraph 96, that the policy was discriminatory.
That's clearly alleged in paragraph 96.  We've also
alleged that they approved the policy.
            The link -- to the extent that approval is
not sufficient for this Court, the link between approval
in 96 and an allegation is paragraph 69, because if they
knew that these individuals were being detained in
restrictive conditions of confinement because of their
race, religion, and national origin, as we alleged in

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

96, and they also approved that they should not be
released until cleared, then they are approving them
being held in restrictive conditions of confinement
based upon race, religion, and national origin.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No, but they didn't -- that
isn't what 96 says.  What 96 says, which I think is
important, is it says that they knew of and agreed to
subject the plaintiffs to these harsh conditions solely
on account of their religion, race, and national origin,
and for no legitimate penological interest.  Because, if
they are looking for suspects from 9/11, given the
people they found, it's not surprising that they might
look for people who looked like Arabs.  All right?  That
isn't surprising to me, because that was what the
suspects looked like.
            So, they want to say, yes, that was part of
it, but it's not for no legitimate penological interest;
it was for every good reason:  We didn't want more bombs
to go off.
            Now, suppose that's their view.  Suppose
also -- I'm just hypothetically -- they never, and they
know this, ever had a conversation where they said, go
look for people of Arabic descent alone.  They never
said that.  They said, look for those people who have
other connections and had something we reasonably

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

believe is 9/11-connected; they might be dangerous.
Suppose that's what they thought.  So they read this,
and they think, Judge, I want to tell Judge that you
have no evidence to show anything other than what I just
said, which sounds as if it might be reasonably
connected to the 9/11 investigation.  What is open to
our two defendants, if you win this case?  If they're
right, how do they prevent lots of depositions from
coming in and taking their time?  How do they prevent
this case dragging on and taking their time?  If the
facts are what I just said, rather than what you think?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, Justice Breyer, if those
are the facts, then those are facts that have to be
established through discovery.  They cannot be
established at the pleading stage.  I would think we
could all agree on that.  And that's their -- and they
can do that through discovery.
            Now, at the pleading stage, if they don't
want to file an answer and deny the facts, they can move
to dismiss on qualified-immunity grounds as they have.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  They'll -- they'll deny the
facts; then you'll say there's a factual matter.  And
suppose hypothetically -- not what you think -- but you
have no reason at all hypothetically, imagine, for
believing that they did this solely for racial reasons

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

unrelated to the investigation of 9/11.  Suppose you
don't have any information that shows that, and they are
going to say everything else is covered by qualified
immunity, and you have nothing else.  Then what do they
do to get out of 10 years of discovery?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, the Second Circuit gives
a clear path for defendants in that situation,
Justice Breyer, and the answer is, if you want to make a
Rule 12(e) motion, make it; it was referred to in
Crawford-El.  But, more importantly, we don't get
discovery of them.  We don't get to drag them through
discovery unless --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I just interrupt?
There are a whole bunch of other defendants in this
case.  As I understand it, they're still in the case.
            MR. REINERT:  That's correct.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  So you do have discovery
of maybe 25 to 30 officials who would have a lot of
information about this case.  It seems to me it's
entirely possible that you could either postpone
discovery and dismiss the two principal defendants for
now and then bring them in later, if the facts you
develop from the other discovery would prove what you
have alleged.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, as to postponing

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

discovery, that's exactly what the Second Circuit
directed the district court to do.  So that's been done,
Your Honor.
            As to dismissing them and re-filing later,
the problem with that is there could be a statute of
limitations problem, and that -- so that's just not a
solution.  I mean, that's -- that was a solution that
might result ultimately in absolute immunity in these
kinds of cases.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What is the statute of
limitations that would apply?
            MR. REINERT:  It's 3 years here, Your Honor.
And so we've -- we've obtained discovery.  Now, if it
had been -- if this --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You have -- you have not
had discovery from the Attorney General or --
            MR. REINERT:  Certainly not.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So --
            MR. REINERT:  Certainly not.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So it's -- it's as though
discovery with respect to those two defendants was
stayed pending your discovery from the lower level
defendants?
            MR. REINERT:  In fact, it has been formally
stayed, Justice Ginsburg --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Has it?
            MR. REINERT:  And the Second Circuit's
decision confirms that.  I mean, the --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, that may be what
happened here, but if -- if the Second Circuit is
affirmed, there may be other suits that are like this.
And what is the protection of the high-level official
with qualified immunity with respect to discovery if the
-- the official cannot get dismissal under qualified
immunity at the 12(b)(6) stage?  How many district
judges are there in the country?  Over 600?  One of the
district judges has a very aggressive idea about what
the discovery should be.  What's the protection there?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, if this Court --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  It's a discretionary
decision, interlocutory discretionary decision by the
trial judge.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, if -- Justice Alito, if
this Court in affirming the Second Circuit outlines and
says the Second Circuit took the proper steps -- this is
what the district court should do -- then if any
district court disregards that, then there could be a
petition for mandamus.  And that's -- and I think courts
of appeals would respect this Court's opinion if this
Court said, look, here's the dilemma, here's the best

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

way to resolve it.
            I do want to make a point about the -- I do
want to make one jurisdictional point, Your Honor --
Your Honors, and that is, if Petitioners had raised
these arguments in the context of a motion to dismiss
for failure to state a claim, and they had lost, we
wouldn't be here today, right?  There would be no
jurisdiction.  And Johnson v. Jones, I think, makes
clear that you can't bootstrap jurisdiction by referring
to qualified immunity.
            And, in fact, if you look at Petitioners'
Notice of Motion to Dismiss, point 1 is dismiss for
qualified immunity; point 2 is dismiss because it does
not sufficiently allege personal involvement.  That is,
in their notice of motion itself, they separated out
these two issues.
            Now, in their briefing at all the lower
courts and in this Court, they've elided them.  But our
position on -- on jurisdiction is that there is no --
there is no appellate jurisdiction to -- to deal with
this question, and in fact Petitioners' own motion
suggests that these two issues are separable and that
the only issue here is whether or not clearly
established law applied and the objective reasonableness
of Petitioners' conduct.  And that, we think, is another

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

way of resolving the case.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  May I ask you this
question?  And -- and I ask it, you know, mindful of
what you've just said, but I -- I'm not sure that the
two issues can be kept as -- as separated as you
suggest.
            Another avenue to responding to the problem,
I think, that Justice Breyer's last hypo raised would be
as follows -- and then I'll tell you the difficulty that
I have with it, and I was going ask you to comment on
the difficulty.
            He said that the -- the allegation -- one
way to read the allegation, and I think a fair way, is
to say that the Attorney General and the Director of the
FBI devised a policy and condoned the implementation of
a policy that was based on racial and religious grounds
with no penological purpose.  Well, under the
circumstances of immediate post-9/11, it is not
surprising necessarily that they -- they devised a
policy that had reference to religion and national
origin and so on, given what we knew about the
hijackers.
            What is not so easy to accept, as a matter
of adequate pleading, is the claim that there was no
penological interest involved in the decision of how

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

to and how long to hold the individuals who were picked
up.
            One answer to that, which I think is -- is
in your pleadings, is that you refer to specific
individuals and in particular to your own client, who
was in the position of being held under these conditions
for a considerable period of time, and it turns out
there's -- there's no indication that there was
ultimately a justified penological interest.
            So that might be your answer to
Justice Breyer's question.  There's enough in here about
specific detentions to make it plausible for pleading
standards that they were being held without any
penological interest.
            The difficulty I have with that line of
thinking is this:  You also allege in there that lower
level officials were making decisions on an ad hoc basis
without adequate criteria as to -- as to how they should
make them.  And that particular line of allegations
suggests that what was really going on here, including
what was happening to your client, wasn't the result of
-- of clear policy decisions made by the Attorney
General and the Director of the FBI, but they -- they
were just being scattered.  So, what in the context of
your whole pleading makes it adequate simply to charge

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

on a conclusory basis that these two defendants were
devising a policy that had -- that was intended to have
an effect of no penological interest?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, Your Honor,
Justice Souter, I do think that in this way the OIG
report is very instructive.  It basically confirms that
none of the folks who were held as of interest or as
high interest were ever charged or suspected of being
involved in terrorism.  That was well over 700 people.
As for paragraph 48 --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Did -- you'll have to help
me out.  Did you allege that?
            MR. REINERT:  We alleged that many -- like
many -- plaintiffs, like many detainees, were held for
no reason.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  That's what you're
saying --
            MR. REINERT:  That's what we alleged.
            And in paragraph 48, I just want to say that
does not support the view that there was no racial
criteria here.  What it -- paragraph 48 is immediately
followed by paragraph 49, which says the classifications
were made because of race.  Paragraph 48 is saying the
distinction between "of interest" and "of high interest"
was totally arbitrary.  But that's just a way of saying

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that this was a racial classification policy.  It was a
racial classification policy that resulted in harsh
conditions of confinement for our client and for many
individuals.  And now we have alleged Petitioners'
connection to that.  You know, we could say --
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  Are you -- are you saying
that the -- that the claim that there was no penological
interest for certain decisions goes simply to the
distinction between the decision whether to classify as
"of interest" versus as "of high interest"?
            MR. REINERT:  No, Your Honor, I think
it's -- I think it's very difficult for us to say in a
complaint anything other than no -- no legitimate
penological interest, because we couldn't go through the
complaint proving all the negatives.  The fact is our
client posed no threat that connected to 9/11.  We
alleged that.  We alleged that's true of multiple
detainees, and we think that's sufficient to say that
there was no penological interest.  Now, Petitioner --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is -- is no penological
interest enough?
            MR. REINERT:  Oh --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, is that the only
basis -- after an attack on the country of the magnitude
of 9/11, is that the only basis on which people could be

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

held?  Namely that these people are the -- are the
guilty culprits, and we are going to put them in jail?
            MR. REINERT:  Well --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Surely for at least a
period, you can hold people just -- just to investigate?
            MR. REINERT:  Well, Justice Scalia, I don't
think for a period it's constitutional to hold them
solely based on their race, religion, and national
origin.  And if it is --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, it wasn't solely on
that.
            MR. REINERT:  Well, that is the allegation.
If it is, that's an issue to be dealt on the merits,
exactly as this Court did in Johnson v. California.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But the net was surely not
cast wide enough if anybody with that race, religion was
-- was swept in.
            MR. REINERT:  Well --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, if it's solely for
that reason, there would have been hundreds of thousands
of others.
            MR. REINERT:  Justice Scalia, that is the
allegation in the complaint, that as individuals were
encountered --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- implausible.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. REINERT:  We respectfully disagree with
-- about that, Justice Scalia.  But I would say
that with --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Wasn't it limited to
people who were already indicted on other charges?
            MR. REINERT:  These were people --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  We're not dealing with
the universe of men who are of a certain national
origin; we are dealing with only ones who were
incarcerated for an offense that has nothing to do with
terrorism.
            MR. REINERT:  Justice Ginsburg, these were
individuals who were swept up either in the immigration
detention system or in the justice criminal detention
system, and that's where the classification was made.
But -- but I -- I do --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry -- swept
up?  You mean they were in -- in prison because they had
violated immigration and other laws, right?
            MR. REINERT:  That's correct,
Mr. Chief Justice, that's correct.  We don't dispute
that.
            But I think this Court's decision in Johnson
v. California and in Parents Involved is instructive,
because there the Court says, look, if there is a racial

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

classification, it has to be judged under strict
scrutiny.  And even in Johnson v. California, where the
Court said the State's power was at its apex, which is
in the context of their prisons, and even where there is
an argument that we have gang violence -- we know that
racial identity goes to gang violence to some extent --
still the State was put to its burden of proof of a
compelling State interest, and even though that was a
case that involved damages, it was a qualified immunity
case.
            And Johnson v. California is in many
respects no different from this case.  Yes, the 9/11
context makes a difference, and Petitioners were able to
rely -- I'm sorry, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You can finish.
            MR. REINERT:  The Petitioners were allowed
to rely on the 9/11 context in making their argument
about qualified immunity, about the objective
reasonableness of their conduct, and about whether the
law was clearly established.  But that does not mean --
thank you, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Garre, you have 3 minutes remaining.
       REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. GREGORY G. GARRE
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

58

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            GENERAL GARRE:  Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.  And, first, let me clarify the record on
discoveries.
            The Second Circuit didn't hold that
discovery could not go forward against these
Petitioners.  It held that the district court might --
that's the word it used on page 67a of the petition
appendix -- postpone or limit discovery.  So --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it -- it did happen?
At least it did --
            GENERAL GARRE:  To the grace of the district
court, that's right, and I think Judge Cabranes
emphasized the -- the concerns of potentially vexatious
discovery in this context, and we certainly
wholeheartedly agree with that.
            Second, I think Mr. Reinert made an
important concession when he acknowledged that
substantive standards of law affect what you have to
plead.  And here there are two substantive standards --
two substantive issues that are key.
            One is the standard for supervisory
liability under Bivens, which requires that the
plaintiff show an affirmative link between the
wrongdoing alleged by lower level officials and the
potential wrongdoing on the part of higher level

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

59

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

officials like the Attorney General.  The complaint in
this case has no subsidiary facts on which a reasonable
person could affirm that kind of affirmative link.
            And, second, the -- the Attorney General is
much different than the president of Coca-Cola in that
he is entitled to a presumption of regularity of his
actions.  So that -- that standard itself ought to
affect how one views the complaint.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Garre, I just wanted
to -- would you say that the -- the Attorney General
might be subject to taking a deposition, even if he's
not a defendant?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Certainly we would -- we
would oppose that.  It's conceivable they could try to
get that discovery.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Is there any -- some
standard rule of law that government officials don't
have to testify at proceedings?
            GENERAL GARRE:  I don't know that there is
that standard, Your Honor.  The same concerns --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  I certainly didn't think
there was when I wrote Clinton v. Jones.
            (Laughter.)
            GENERAL GARRE:  Fair enough, Your Honor.
            But certainly, you know, when we think they

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

60

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

are parties to the case the potential demands of civil
discovery and the burdens of civil litigation are much
greater.  Third --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And the reason you can't
make this argument under 26(b)(2)(C) is?
            GENERAL GARRE:  Well, we are in the realm of
discovery, and we are in the realm of relying on the
district court --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  The judge there is supposed
to weigh burdens versus desirability of going forward.
And so why don't you make this argument right at that
point?  If you are right you win; if not, you lose.
            GENERAL GARRE:  For the reason this Court
gave in Bell Atlantic:  We don't rely on district court
judges to weed out potentially meritless claims through
discovery.  We apply faithfully the pleading standards.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  If you are right, you win
assuming you get a district judge who is also right.
            GENERAL GARRE:  Right.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And that's also true, I
guess, of complaints, and every other legal question.
            GENERAL GARRE:  We think that Bell Atlantic
answers that question correctly, Your Honor.
            Third, context does matter.  The Chief
Justice is right about that.  In evaluating the claim,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

61

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

you have to look at the context in which it arises.
Here the fact it arises in the qualified immunity
context with respect to high-level officials is very
important.  The higher up the chain of command you go,
the less plausible it is that the high-level official
like the Attorney General is going to be aware of and
know about the sort of microscopic decisions here:
mistreatment in the Federal detention facility in
Brooklyn, alleged discriminatory applications made by
FBI agents in the field.
            These are not matters that one would
plausibly assume the Attorney General of the United
States has time out of his busy day to concern himself
with.  The Second Circuit decision should be reversed.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, General
Garre --
            GENERAL GARRE:  Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- Mr. Reinert.
            The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 11:05 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

62

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

A

ability 35:23

38:25

able 4:16 31:23

32:5 58:13

above-entitled

1:12 62:21
absolute 49:8
Absolutely 22:1
absurd 18:12

41:17,22 44:8

accept 37:24
44:25 45:1,2
52:23

accepted 8:3
access 31:24

42:23

account 46:9
acknowledged

59:17

Act 20:16,22

21:7 24:2 28:9

acted 36:13
action 12:6,18
12:21 25:16
28:9 34:11
actions 12:9

34:12 42:2,25
60:7

activities 32:8
acts 4:2 5:21
19:16 26:8
28:13 33:21
ad 7:19 26:9
29:17 53:17

add 23:10
address 23:3
adequacy 23:13
adequate 12:24

19:6 21:8
41:14 52:24
53:18,25

adequately 3:25

5:4 6:25

administrations

16:14

adopted 33:13

42:10

advance 30:24
affect 38:25
59:18 60:8
affidavit 22:6
affirm 60:3
affirmative 4:11

12:7,9 19:16
22:14 38:24
59:23 60:3
affirmed 50:6
affirming 50:19
afforded 36:16
afoul 16:7
aftermath 16:24
Agency 17:16
agents 11:8

22:15 62:10

aggressive 50:12
ago 17:23
agree 13:20

15:16 16:18
34:8 47:16
59:15

agreed 46:7
agreement

11:18,19 32:22
39:9,9

agrees 24:23
AL 1:4,7
ALEXANDER
1:19 2:5 28:20
Alito 29:22 30:3

30:13 31:2
44:2 50:4,15
50:18

allegation 15:22
21:19 29:2,12
29:13,15 30:5
39:8 41:5 42:9
43:10 44:8,14
45:22 52:12,13
56:12,23

allegations 6:6,7
6:8,10,15 7:20
9:8,14 10:9,11
11:6 12:8

17:24 22:6,11
28:7 30:17
32:13 37:21
39:21 40:17
44:14 53:19
allege 30:1,10
32:16 37:7,7
39:10,10,11
42:16 45:9
51:14 53:16
54:12

alleged 3:15 4:2

11:19 19:12
22:14,25 26:8
32:6,6 45:16
45:18,19,25
48:24 54:13,18
55:4,17,17
59:24 62:9
allegedly 7:7

12:10

alleges 7:15 30:9

39:12,12,13
alleging 7:17

44:15,17

allowed 58:16
allows 14:25

alluded 33:6
alternative 34:4

amended 25:17
Amendment

20:6

34:5

8:24

amicus 31:10
analyzed 4:7
answer 13:12,22

14:1 17:20
19:21 21:12
23:8 47:19
48:8 53:3,10
answered 31:3
answers 37:25

61:23

antitrust 13:4
23:5,21 25:3
32:21 37:22

anybody 56:16
apex 58:3
apparently

18:15

appeals 3:19

4:24 5:7 23:11
23:16 50:24

APPEARAN...

1:15

appellate 51:20
appendix 7:5,6

29:6 59:8

applicable 24:12
applications

62:9

applied 23:11,15

23:16 26:1,5
38:5 51:24
applies 27:4

36:25,25
apply 18:11

34:11,12,16,20
49:11 61:16

appropriate 5:1

25:3

approval 30:6

33:24 45:20,21

approved 7:21
8:1 29:4,19,24
36:18 44:18,20
44:24 45:4,7
45:19 46:1

approving 29:9

46:2

Arab 6:23
Arabic 46:23
Arabs 46:13
arbitrary 54:25
arena 42:23
argue 35:16

36:10,12 38:19
argued 36:11,13
arguing 21:17
argument 1:13

2:2,7 3:4,7
12:14,15 21:18
28:20 29:10

32:22 41:17
58:5,17,24
61:5,11

arguments 51:5
arises 62:1,2
arising 28:10
Ashcroft 1:3 3:4

5:24

asking 12:3

30:25 38:23
asserted 4:15

28:13

assume 26:22
41:12 62:12

assuming 61:18
assumption
40:12,21

Atlantic 9:21

10:8,9,12 11:5
11:13,21 13:3
14:14,15 15:5
15:10,12,19
16:10 18:20
21:14,19 23:20
23:21 26:18
33:5,7,10 34:2
37:15,19,19
38:14,19 39:3
39:7 40:13
42:5 44:12
61:14,22

Atlantic's 24:3
attack 55:24
attacks 8:11

16:24,24 26:2

attorney 1:4
3:12,18,23
5:13 7:10,20
8:1 9:1,9 12:11
12:24 13:6
16:2,13,15
17:12 19:22
20:23 22:16
26:11,15 27:2
27:20,23 28:4
31:14,19,20
34:12 35:8,23

63

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

37:1 38:2
40:22 41:11
42:2 45:6
49:16 52:14
53:22 60:1,4
60:10 62:6,12

avail 9:22
available 23:12
avenue 52:7
aware 62:6
a.m 1:14 3:2

62:20

B

back 17:22

26:14 40:19
background

38:21,24

balance 38:11
based 3:14 28:5
30:14,16,20,21
30:23 31:3
45:12 46:4
52:16 56:8
basic 19:21

basically 33:9

40:20

54:6

basis 4:20 7:18
13:20,21,25
14:21 21:6
26:9 39:17,20
39:24 53:17
54:1 55:24,25

bear 9:8
began 22:20
behalf 1:17,19

2:4,6,9 3:8
28:21 58:25
believe 24:10
34:10 47:1

believing 47:25
Bell 9:21 10:8,9
10:12 11:5,13
11:21 13:3
14:14,15 15:5
15:10,12,19

16:10 18:20
21:14,19 23:20
23:21 24:3
26:18 33:5,7
33:10 34:2
37:14,18,19
38:14,19 39:2
39:7 40:13
42:5 44:12
61:14,22

benefit 25:15

35:5

best 50:25
bet 20:10
better 10:23
25:18 37:18

beyond 8:18,18

26:18,19
big 11:17
bit 32:2 36:6
Bivens 3:14 12:6

12:14,18,20
13:1 19:19
22:13 23:12,15
42:23 59:22
bizarre 15:21

16:6 41:17,22

blue 28:1
blueprint 28:1
Bock 4:22
bombs 46:18
bootstrap 51:9
BOP 31:22
bottle 13:15

14:21

bottles 16:1 41:2

41:9 42:13
43:3,8 44:7
Breyer 13:11

14:3,7,8,10,18
14:23 15:4
17:19 18:7,8
19:20 20:2,10
24:10 34:24
35:10,11,13
46:5 47:12,21
48:8 61:4,9,20

Breyer's 15:24
20:13 21:11
34:9 40:20
52:8 53:11
brief 16:12
29:11,12

briefing 51:17
briefs 31:10
bring 20:6 48:22
broad 23:23
Brooklyn 62:9
brought 25:16
bunch 5:21

48:14

burden 35:5

58:7

burdens 13:8

18:23,24 19:2
26:17 61:2,10

Bureau 17:15
busy 17:18

19:22,24,24,25
20:5 62:13

C
C 2:1 3:1
Cabranes 59:12
Cabranes's

27:25

California 56:14
57:24 58:2,11

called 6:22
care 20:13
carries 19:19
case 3:4,11,17

4:22 5:12 9:20
9:21,22 11:13
11:20 12:18,19
13:12 15:24,25
16:12,25 19:8
19:9,14 22:7,9
22:10 23:7,18
23:19 24:7
25:16 26:9,23
26:23 27:8,15
27:17,22,22
28:1,13 29:17

32:10,21 33:5
36:10 38:17,20
38:22 42:6
43:20 44:5,10
47:7,10 48:15
48:15,19 52:1
58:9,10,12
60:2 61:1
62:19,20
cases 12:20

17:23 21:25
22:4,9 23:25
26:19 27:15
29:8 34:3,4
49:9

cast 56:16
cause 12:6,18,21
center 25:9

36:24

centered 16:4
cert 36:14
certain 6:23
18:10 20:15
31:6 42:1 55:8
57:8

certainly 9:18

15:16 16:9
17:23 21:8
22:2 24:17
32:9 34:15,18
34:18,19 35:9
37:6 41:16
43:2,3,15
49:17,19 59:14
60:13,21,25

chain 26:14 62:4
challenging 28:2
change 35:3
character 16:6
characteristics
16:5 40:25,25
charge 6:1 8:20

11:16 53:25
charged 54:8
charges 5:23

57:5

check 40:2

64

Alderson Reporting Company

Chief 3:3,10

7:24 8:13 9:5
12:13 20:20,22
21:3,9 28:17
28:19,22 32:1
34:8,17 36:21
37:4,8,17 38:7
38:13 41:19,22
42:7 44:4 45:5
45:12,15 57:17
57:21 58:15,22
59:1 61:24
62:15,18

choice 10:10,17

10:24,25
Circuit 5:2

16:23 28:15
35:14 38:11
43:20,23 48:6
49:1 50:5,19
50:20 59:4
62:14

Circuit's 35:17

50:2

circumstances

17:9 52:18

cite 23:18 27:14

27:15

City 19:10,11
civil 3:19 6:17
10:1 13:8,8
18:3,24 19:2
25:3 26:17,17
27:24,24 28:1
28:5 61:1,2

claim 8:15 10:5
11:3 12:2,14
13:2,14 14:19
14:24 15:6,25
16:2 19:6
21:18,22 27:19
27:22 37:7,10
38:16 41:1,14
51:6 52:24
55:7 61:25

claimed 27:17
claims 3:14 11:3

13:9 18:22
19:9 21:15
24:6,15,16,20
24:22 25:10
27:13,14 28:9
28:12,13 61:15
clarify 4:5 59:2
classification
7:13 26:13
55:1,2 57:15
58:1

classifications

7:8 54:22
classify 55:9
clear 26:7 48:7

51:9 53:22

cleared 6:14 8:7
8:21 9:11 11:4
11:9 16:4 26:1
46:2

clearly 3:22 5:9

35:18 36:11
45:18 51:23
58:20

client 13:25 53:5
53:21 55:3,16
Clinton 60:22
close 41:10
closer 43:1,4
clueless 10:17
Coca 35:6 37:25

41:1 44:9
Coca-Cola

13:14,18,18
14:20 19:23
21:11 24:20
34:11 36:22,23
42:1,9,10
43:14 60:5

Cochran 31:24

33:3

coercive 40:25
coherent 29:1
Coke 16:1 41:7

43:3

Cola 35:7 38:1

41:1 44:9

colloquy 33:6
come 4:16
comes 7:12

22:13

coming 6:2 47:9
command 62:4
comment 52:10
commercial

23:6

19:11

32:6

42:10

common 16:10

16:14,19 22:17

communicate

Company 24:21

compelling 58:8
complaining 6:3

33:15

complaint 3:16
3:22,25 4:14
5:4,22 6:6 7:3
7:15,17 8:4,15
9:7 10:3,4 20:8
25:14,17 26:9
28:25 30:5,12
30:24 32:12,14
32:16 33:10
36:25 37:23
38:6 39:4,12
55:13,15 56:23
60:1,8

complaints

61:21

completely 44:3
concede 42:23

45:2

conceded 29:10
conceivable
4:13 60:14

concept 23:17
conception

conceptually

23:11

10:22

concerning

43:25

30:15

concerns 3:11

24:9 59:13
60:20

concession

59:17

3:21

conclusory 28:6

29:2 40:16
54:1

conditions 31:21

32:3,4 43:6
45:24 46:3,8
53:6 55:3

condoned 7:22
8:1 9:5 52:15

conduct 7:22
10:13 11:7
24:1 42:24
51:25 58:19
confined 23:5
confinement
31:21 32:3,5
45:24 46:3
55:3

confirm 35:20
confirms 32:13

50:3 54:6

Congress 36:19
Conley 23:24
connected 32:7

47:6 55:16

connection 6:13
8:8 37:18 38:3
55:5

connections

considerable

46:25

53:7

considered
12:17 19:9
29:14,15

conspiracy

10:12 21:20
32:20 39:2,2,5

constitutional

56:7

contention 41:4
contests 40:6
context 13:4
16:23 19:19
23:6,21 24:2
24:18 37:21,22
38:16,16,20
40:14,14,18
51:5 53:24
58:4,13,17
59:14 61:24
62:1,3

contexts 18:24
contrary 29:10
control 18:1,10

conversation

19:4

46:22

copied 14:24
correct 11:14
31:17 37:12
48:16 57:20,21
correctly 61:23
counsel 26:25

58:22

countless 17:17
countries 6:23
country 20:3
45:13 50:11
55:24

course 18:3 22:3

34:5 42:8
43:14

court 1:1,13
3:10,19,21
4:19 5:7,16
9:19 11:23
12:17,20 14:6
14:15 16:10
18:20 19:8,14
20:21 21:15,21

22:24 23:11,14
23:16,20,20,22
23:22,24 24:6
25:3 27:21
28:23 33:9
35:12,15 36:19
37:13,15,16
39:6,7 45:21
49:2 50:14,19
50:21,22,25
51:18 56:14
57:25 58:3
59:6,12 61:8
61:13,14

courts 4:23 17:4

17:8 18:22
50:23 51:18
Court's 3:24
21:14 24:18
26:19 50:24
57:23

covered 48:3
Crawford-El
9:20 48:10
crazy 41:8,12
created 44:17
criminal 57:14
criteria 7:12,19

26:13 53:18
54:21

criterion 10:19
culprits 56:2

D
D 1:3 3:1
damages 13:8

58:9

dangerous 47:1
day 18:4 24:25

deal 9:15 17:6

62:13

51:20

dealing 57:7,9
dealt 56:13
decades 17:22
December 1:10
decides 35:4

Official - Subject to Final Review

concerned 40:14

29:11

Commissioner

concluding 3:16

concern 62:13

consistent 10:11

65

Alderson Reporting Company

decision 4:24

5:8 16:23
21:14 24:18
25:6 27:25
36:1 50:3,16
50:16 52:25
55:9 57:23
62:14

decisions 16:17

22:18 29:18
53:17,22 55:8
62:7

defendant 60:12
defendants 5:9
5:24 9:22 22:5
22:9 25:4 47:7
48:7,14,21
49:21,23 54:1
defended 26:24

27:1

defense 4:12,15
4:20 5:18 8:17
38:24

deficiencies

25:14

definite 9:17,24

10:23 14:11
demands 3:18

61:1

8:22

demonstrated

denial 4:24
deny 47:19,21
denying 5:14

22:6

Department
1:17 17:15
26:24 27:2
29:18 31:19

dependent 36:1
depending

40:18

38:20

60:11

deposition 15:1

depositions

13:17 14:1
20:25 35:3
47:8

deprived 5:17
derelict 43:6
derivative 5:20
descent 46:23
describe 6:10
described 6:22

6:25 9:10
26:18 30:12
36:18

designed 24:25
designing 5:25

6:20

desirability

61:10

destroy 23:6
detail 41:14
detained 45:23
detainees 25:8
29:21 44:16
54:14 55:18
detention 25:9
31:7 57:14,14
62:8

detentions 27:12

28:11 53:12
determination

16:11 27:7

determinations
7:8,11,16,18
26:12

determine 11:8
determined 6:12

8:6

develop 48:23
developing

11:23

devised 10:20

52:15,19

devising 40:24

difference 10:6
10:7,8 32:24
33:5 58:13
different 10:1

depends 38:15

54:2

Official - Subject to Final Review

11:3,20 16:13
29:25 32:2
33:23 37:5,6
44:11 58:12
60:5

differently 26:5
difficult 38:11
38:11 55:12
difficulty 44:5
52:9,11 53:15
dilemma 43:21

50:25

direct 21:19
directed 31:22
33:20 35:15
49:2

direction 31:20

33:24

directly 5:6 6:2

12:21 40:24

director 3:13,23

5:13 7:10,21
8:2 9:2,9 12:11
12:25 13:7
16:3 17:12
20:24 22:17
26:11,16 27:3
28:4 31:23
34:13 35:24
37:1 38:3
40:23 41:12
45:6 52:14
53:23

disagree 38:14

57:1

disavowal 24:4
disavowed

disavowing

23:23

23:25

discoveries 59:3
discovery 3:19
6:17 13:8 18:1
18:7,9,12,19
18:23 19:2,5
20:25 21:24
27:24 28:5

32:12,17,23
35:16,18,19,20
47:14,17 48:5
48:11,12,17,21
48:23 49:1,13
49:16,21,22
50:8,13 59:5,8
59:14 60:15
61:2,7,16

discretely 4:7
discretionary

27:7 36:1
50:15,16

discriminated

29:20

discriminatory
4:2 7:7,22 12:9
26:8 45:10,17
62:9

dismiss 4:21,25

5:15 24:16
47:20 48:21
51:5,12,12,13
dismissal 10:2

22:10 50:9

dismissed 10:4

24:17

dismissing 49:4
dispensed 23:23
dispute 7:25

57:21

disputed 8:9
disregarded

39:8

disregards

50:22

distinction

15:12 54:24
55:9

distinguish 11:2

44:14

distortions

distribution

33:15

36:23

district 5:16
18:21 19:4

22:4 24:6 25:7
27:21 35:12,15
36:2 49:2
50:10,12,21,22
59:6,11 61:8
61:14,18

divisions 17:14
doctrine 24:24
24:24 34:22

documents 31:9
doing 20:2
doubt 14:19
doubts 24:9
drag 48:11
dragging 47:10
draw 30:17
drew 15:12
Drug 17:16
due 8:15,23
D.C 1:9,17
E
E 2:1 3:1,1
easier 22:5
Eastern 25:7
easy 45:5 52:23
economic 16:10
effect 10:10 54:3
effective 25:1
either 10:16
17:9 22:7,8
36:14 44:17
48:20 57:13

either-or 10:10
element 12:1
elementary

13:13

elements 11:16
elided 51:18
emphasized

encountered

59:13

56:24

enforcement

8:11 11:7
17:16 26:3
28:3

66

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

existence 17:22

fanciful 43:10

enforcing 17:16
engaged 31:15
entirely 4:13

48:20

entitled 5:14
22:9 24:23
25:2 26:23
29:14,15 60:6

entitlement

14:13,16,19
15:6

equipoise 33:9
erred 3:19,21

22:24

erroneously

5:17

2:5,8

ESQ 1:16,19 2:3

essential 5:12
11:16 12:1
43:20

establish 15:14
19:15 22:13
42:24

established 3:22
4:22 5:9 30:11
36:11 38:15
44:21 47:14,15
51:24 58:20
establishing

16:3

ET 1:4,7
ethnicity 45:13
evaluate 12:23

evaluating 9:3

23:13

61:25

evening 34:13
evidence 47:4
exactly 21:22

29:5 33:6 49:1
56:14

examination

38:5

example 35:4
excerpts 5:22
exercised 10:3

32:20

23:17

expansive 23:11

expense 35:5
experience

16:11,15 22:17
explication 24:3
extent 34:20
39:8 45:20
58:6

extra 36:17
extraordinarily

17:18

extraordinary

16:23 17:9

extra-complaint

extra-record

25:13

25:13

F

face 6:11 8:23
faced 43:21
facility 62:8
fact 21:6 24:13

35:14,17 40:23
49:24 51:11,21
55:15 62:2
facts 15:18
32:16 41:8
45:8,9 47:11
47:13,13,19,22
48:22 60:2
factual 20:7
22:11 26:21
29:12,13,15
47:22

factually 8:10
11:6 17:25
fails 3:25 4:5

10:4

failure 51:6
fair 6:5 40:19,20

52:13 60:24

faith 13:20
faithfully 61:16

43:12

far 16:19 26:10
26:18,19 41:10

FBI 3:13,24

5:14 6:12 7:8
7:10,21 8:2,7,8
9:2,10 11:7
12:11,25 13:7
16:3 17:13
20:24 22:15,17
26:10,12,16
27:3 28:4
31:15 34:13
35:24 37:1
38:3 40:23
41:11 45:6,7
52:15 53:23
62:10

Federal 4:23
10:1 17:15
28:13 62:8

field 7:9 12:11

22:15 26:5
62:10

Fifth 8:24
file 9:16,23

filed 16:12 22:5

47:19

32:13

filing 30:24
filled 42:13
find 9:17 18:15

29:6,7

finds 21:1,5
finish 58:15
first 3:4,21 4:19
22:23 23:9,10
59:2

focuses 37:9
folks 54:7
follow 34:9

41:24

followed 54:22
following 40:21
follows 52:9
Ford 24:21 35:7

Form 11:24
formally 4:12

49:24

former 1:3 3:23
7:9 9:1 16:13
forth 39:4 43:7
fortiori 21:21
forward 27:23

33:1 59:5
61:10

found 25:3,23
25:24 46:12

foundation 20:7
frankly 11:21
frequency 43:8
frivolous 20:17
functioning 25:1
fundamental
3:20 16:22

fundamentally

12:5 19:3
25:12

funny 32:11

G

G 1:16 2:3,8 3:1

3:7 58:24
gang 58:5,6
garnered 39:24
Garre 1:16 2:3,8

3:6,7,9 4:4,9
4:18 5:19 6:4
7:2 8:3,25 9:6
9:18 11:1,12
12:3,16 14:2,5
14:9,12,22
15:2,5,8,16
16:9,21 17:6
17:10 18:6,18
20:18,21 21:2
21:4,8,13,16
22:1,8 23:1,8
24:14 25:5,11
26:20 27:1,6
27:11,13 28:12
28:18 29:22
33:7 34:10

58:23,24 59:1
59:11 60:9,13
60:19,24 61:6
61:13,19,22
62:16,17

Garre's 31:12
gateway 19:6
gathered 30:23
GEN 1:16 2:3,8

3:7 58:24

general 1:4,16
3:6,9,13,18,23
4:4,9,18 5:13
6:4,6 7:2,10,20
8:1,3,25 9:1,6
9:9,18 11:1,3
11:12 12:3,12
12:16,24 13:6
14:2,5,9,12,22
15:2,5,16 16:2
16:9,16,21
17:6,10,12,13
18:6,18 19:22
19:24 20:18,21
20:23 21:2,8
21:13 22:1,8
22:16 23:1,8
24:14 25:5,7
25:11 26:11,15
27:1,2,6,11,13
27:20,23 28:4
28:6,12,17,18
29:22 31:12,14
31:19 33:7,13
34:9,12 35:8
35:24 37:1
38:2 40:5,22
41:11 42:2
45:6 49:16
52:14 53:23
59:1,11 60:1,4
60:10,13,19,24
61:6,13,19,22
62:6,12,15,17
generally 28:6

30:10

generals 16:13

67

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

government's

62:4

General's 30:21
31:8,13,18,20
39:25

getting 10:15

43:8

Gibson 23:24
Ginsburg 4:4,10

4:19 11:12
12:4 20:9,12
20:19 21:10
25:5,12 27:10
28:8,15 31:11
49:10,15,18,20
49:25 50:1
57:4,7,12 59:9

give 19:7 36:7
given 36:15

46:11 52:21

gives 36:5,8 48:6
Gleason's 25:6
go 5:22 10:19

13:21,23 14:23
17:22 18:9
23:19 25:21
26:14,22 27:22
33:1 46:19,22
55:14 59:5
62:4

goes 5:5,8 12:21

26:3,17 55:8
58:6

going 7:14 12:15

13:17 17:2
18:13,15,21
20:16 28:14
33:3 34:4
40:19 44:4
48:3 52:10
53:20 56:2
61:10 62:6

good 4:13 8:17
11:24 13:20
43:24 46:18

gotten 19:5
govern 18:19
government

3:12 5:5 16:15

16:19 19:1
20:4 24:23
25:1 60:17

5:15

governs 18:6
grace 59:11
grant 9:15
granular 22:18
greater 38:5

61:3

GREGORY

1:16 2:3,8 3:7
58:24

ground 4:25

5:16

grounds 47:20

52:16

group 32:7
groups 31:6
guess 44:13

61:21

guilty 56:2
H

happen 59:9
happened 30:18

30:22 50:5
happening

53:21

harassed 20:11
hard 24:10
harsh 31:21

32:3 46:8 55:2
Hartman 12:19
hauled 20:24
head 31:15
hear 3:3 19:21
heightened
11:24 12:4
37:11,13,15,16
held 8:21 16:23

19:14 34:6
46:3 53:6,13
54:7,14 56:1
59:6

help 54:11

high 19:1 44:17
54:8,24 55:10

higher 59:25

higher-level

19:17

highest 24:22
high-level 25:25
28:5 33:13,19
39:21 50:7
62:3,5

high-ranking
3:12,17 4:1
19:10

hijackers 16:5

52:22

hoc 7:19 26:9
29:17 53:17
hold 7:3 11:9
25:25 53:1
56:5,7 59:4

holding 6:11,22
8:5 9:10 11:4

Honor 31:17
32:10 33:22
34:15,19 36:5
37:3,12 41:4
49:3,12 51:3
54:4 55:11
58:14,21 60:20
60:24 61:23
Honors 30:25
32:18 51:4

hope 45:6
hundreds 56:20
hypo 52:8
hypothetical

44:6

imagine 17:21

47:24

immediate

52:18

immediately

54:21

immigration

57:13,19

immunity 3:11
4:6,11,15,25
5:6,14,16
12:15,22 24:24
26:19 34:22
36:3,16,17
38:9 43:22
48:4 49:8 50:8
50:10 51:10,13
58:9,18 62:2

impending

35:16

implausible

21:21,22 56:25
implementation

28:2 33:16
52:15

implemented

10:20

important 5:18

6:13 11:2
19:23 20:3,5
21:24 28:3
46:7 59:17
62:4

importantly
7:11 48:10
impose 18:23
impression

28:10

hypothetically

46:21 47:23,24

inadequate 28:6
incarcerated

I
idea 50:12
identified 44:16
identity 58:6
ignore 17:8
illegal 30:7

included 17:24

57:10

27:19

includes 6:21
including 53:20
inconvenience

21:24

indication 53:8
indicted 57:5
individual 19:12
individually

44:9,15

individuals 10:5

45:23 53:1,5
55:4 56:23
57:13

inferences 30:16
information

25:24 30:15,23
39:24 48:2,19

innocent 8:22
Inspector 25:7
30:21 31:8,13
31:18 39:25
instance 31:24

instructive 54:6

37:14

57:24

intended 54:2
interest 6:12 8:7
11:8 44:16,17
46:10,17 52:25
53:9,14 54:3,7
54:8,24,24
55:8,10,10,14
55:19,21 58:8
interests 43:24

interlocutory

43:25

50:16

interpretation
7:3 10:15 42:5
interpreted 14:6

14:14 15:2
interrelated
3:20 23:10

interrupt 6:19

32:2 48:13

investigate 56:5
investigation

6:13 8:8 11:11
17:16 47:6
48:1

involved 5:20

68

Alderson Reporting Company

16:16 22:18
26:2 27:17
40:24 44:9
52:25 54:9
57:24 58:9

involvement 4:1

5:5 41:11
51:14

involving 38:2
Iqbal 1:7 3:5

27:21,22

Iqbal's 25:10
issue 15:23

51:23 56:13
issues 51:16,22

52:5 59:20

i.e 8:21

J
jail 56:2
JAVAID 1:7
job 17:11 22:4

43:24

jobs 35:24
JOHN 1:3
Johnny 31:24

33:2

Johnson 51:8
56:14 57:23
58:2,11
joint 7:5
Jones 4:22 13:14

51:8 60:22

judge 13:24,24

14:24 15:1
18:1,12 20:13
20:25 21:5,7
22:4 25:6
27:25 35:2,12
36:2 41:25
47:3,3 50:17
59:12 61:9,18

judged 4:14

58:1

judges 19:4

50:11,12 61:15

judgment 4:17

Official - Subject to Final Review

8:19

jurisdiction

51:8,9,19,20
jurisdictional

51:3

justice 1:17 3:3
3:10 4:4,10,19
5:19 6:5,18
7:24 8:13 9:4,5
9:12 10:6
11:12,14 12:4
12:13 13:11
14:3,6,8,10,18
14:23 15:4,8
15:20,24 16:18
17:4,8,15,19
18:7,8 19:20
20:2,9,10,12
20:13,19,20,22
21:3,9,10,11
21:16 22:1,3
22:19,23 23:2
24:8,9,10 25:5
25:12 26:20,24
27:2,4,9,10
28:8,15,17,19
28:22 29:19,22
30:2,3,13 31:2
31:11 32:1,19
32:25 33:4,6
33:11 34:8,9
34:17,24 35:10
35:11,13,22
36:6,7,9,21
37:4,8,17 38:7
38:13 39:1,7
39:14,16,20,23
40:2,4,5,7,11
40:19 41:6,19
41:22,24 42:7
42:8,15,17,18
43:5,12,13,17
44:2,4 45:5,12
45:15 46:5
47:12,21 48:8
48:13,17 49:10
49:15,18,20,25

50:1,4,15,18
52:2,8 53:11
54:5,11,16
55:6,20,23
56:4,6,10,15
56:19,22,25
57:2,4,7,12,14
57:17,21 58:15
58:22 59:2,9
60:9,16,21
61:4,9,17,20
61:25 62:15,18

justified 53:9

K

KENNEDY

22:19,23 23:2
24:8

kept 52:5
key 59:20
kind 10:21 13:4

16:6 60:3
kinds 49:9
knew 7:21 9:5

44:18,19,20,21
44:25,25 45:3
45:7,10,16,23
46:7 52:21

know 12:25 13:2

13:3,5,12,19
17:4,25 18:2
26:21 28:9
31:4,5 33:2
37:18 39:20,25
40:1,11 43:11
45:2 46:22
52:3 55:5 58:5
60:19,25 62:7

knowledge

29:20 30:6,9
30:10,11 33:23

known 29:24

L

language 6:20

23:24 24:5

Laughter 18:5

20:1 22:22
40:10 43:16
60:23

law 8:10 11:6
13:4 19:16
22:13 26:3
28:3 36:10
51:24 58:20
59:18 60:17

lawful 8:10
10:13 11:6
26:3

laws 17:17 57:19
lawyer 13:16,24

20:14,23
leave 36:22
left 33:9
legal 61:21
legitimate 46:10

46:17 55:13

lends 25:10
let's 36:22
level 3:15 4:2
7:15,23 8:4
12:10 13:10
15:18 19:1
22:15 24:22
29:18 33:16
35:19 38:15,19
44:11 49:22
53:17 59:24,25
liabilities 23:12
liability 3:14
5:11,21 12:7
13:2,8,9 23:15
26:17 35:25
37:5 38:21
39:5 42:22
59:22

liberal 43:21
limit 59:8
limitations 49:6

limited 23:21

49:11

57:4

limiting 24:1
line 53:15,19

lines 42:11
lingering 24:9
link 12:7,9

19:16 22:14
42:24 45:20,21
59:23 60:3
litigate 35:25
litigating 17:14
litigation 26:17

27:11 28:14
38:2 61:2
little 32:2
local 36:23
long 53:1
look 6:8 7:2 9:7
17:11 25:20,21
25:22 37:23
46:13,23,24
50:25 51:11
57:25 62:1

looked 46:13,15
looking 33:10
38:1 46:11

lose 61:12
lost 36:12,14

51:6

lot 9:14 48:18
lots 47:8
lovely 35:23
low 29:18
lower 3:15 4:2
7:15,22 12:10
13:9 22:15
33:16 35:19
49:22 51:17
53:16 59:24

M
magnitude

55:24

maintains 8:4
making 7:16
11:17 26:12
53:17 58:17

maliciously 5:25
manager 36:23
mandamus

69

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

manufacturing

materials 25:13

50:23

42:11

25:13

matter 1:12
19:16 39:3
47:22 52:23
61:24 62:21
matters 62:11
Mayor 19:10
mean 6:1,5,24

9:13,18,19
12:16 15:11
16:10 19:20
25:12 31:17
32:10,21 35:15
35:22 36:2
37:6,14 43:19
43:21 49:7
50:3 55:23
56:19 57:18
58:20

men 6:23 57:8
mentioned 9:19
meritless 18:22

61:15

merits 12:14
37:9 56:13
Metropolitan

25:8

mice 41:9 43:3,7

43:7 44:6
microscopic
16:17 62:7

mind 10:8 23:14
mindful 52:3
minimum 19:19
minutes 58:23
missing 12:1,5
mistake 11:17
mistreatment

62:8

moment 19:25
morning 3:4
motion 4:8,9,17
4:20,24 5:15

9:16,23 48:9
51:5,12,15,21

motive 27:19
Motor 24:21
Motors 19:24
mouse 13:15

14:20

mouses 16:1

41:2

47:19

move 10:2 14:10

Mueller 5:24
multiple 55:17
multiplied 18:25
Muslim 6:23

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
national 38:3
45:25 46:4,9
52:20 56:8
57:8

nature 30:18

44:7

necessarily

52:19

need 32:25

35:20

negatives 55:15
net 56:15
neutral 6:11
8:10 11:6

never 46:21,23
notice 51:12,15
notion 38:14
no-set-of-facts

23:23 24:4

number 33:12

34:25 35:3

N.Y 1:19
O
O 2:1 3:1
objective 51:24

58:18

objectively

36:13

obligation 14:16
obtain 32:17
obtained 32:12

49:13

occurred 39:15
occurring 45:3
offense 57:10
Office 25:7

30:21 31:8,13
31:17,20 39:25

officers 19:13
official 19:2
50:7,9 62:5

officials 3:12,15
3:18 4:1,2 5:5
7:9,16,23
12:10 13:10
17:2 19:10,17
22:15 24:22
25:2,25 26:10
28:5 33:14,16
33:20 35:20
39:22 48:18
53:17 59:24
60:1,17 62:3
Oh 17:4 31:16

55:22

OIG 54:5
Okay 13:17,21
15:20 54:16

ones 57:9
open 47:6
opening 29:11
operation 16:19
opinion 11:23
35:17 50:24
opportunity

9:23

oppose 60:14
opposed 42:2
option 9:19,20
9:21 10:1,3

oral 1:12 2:2 3:7

28:20 29:10

order 12:23

23:13 24:11
33:1 41:14

ordered 31:6,6
ordinary 13:12

17:18

origin 6:23

45:13,25 46:4
46:9 52:21
56:9 57:9

ought 38:4 60:7
outlines 50:19
outside 25:21
outweighs 35:5
overarching

7:20

overcome 4:6
overly 23:11,16

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 5:7 7:5

7:19 25:22
26:10 59:7
pages 26:6,7
paragraph 5:23

6:9 7:4,6,12
8:5 9:10 28:24
29:1,3,5,6,7,12
29:13,14 30:8
45:1,17,18,22
54:10,19,21,22
54:23

paragraphs 6:9
7:17 30:12,13
parallel 10:13

24:1 28:14

Parents 57:24
part 4:23 6:25

30:21 32:7
46:16 59:25
particular 7:4
37:22 38:17
42:6 44:10,16
53:5,19

particularly

44:8

parties 61:1
path 48:7
penal 6:24

70

Alderson Reporting Company

pending 27:11

28:9 49:22
penological

46:10,17 52:17
52:25 53:9,14
54:3 55:7,14
55:19,20

people 6:2 8:21
11:8,10 16:5
17:13,17 20:3
20:6,10 21:24
33:2 34:5
46:12,13,23,24
54:9 55:25
56:1,5 57:5,6
perfectly 8:10

11:6 26:3
33:14

period 53:7 56:5

permitted 36:10

56:7

36:12

person 18:9 60:3
personal 3:25

5:5 35:25
51:14

personally
13:15 16:1
42:16,21

persons 6:12

26:1

44:6

perspective 17:2

petition 7:6

20:17 36:14
50:23 59:7

Petitioner 55:19
Petitioners 1:5
1:18 2:4,9 3:8
5:17 6:7,17 7:9
9:1,24 16:25
28:25 29:4,9
29:10,20,24
30:6,16,19,25
31:4,5 32:15
34:21 35:16,19
35:21 38:10,23

Official - Subject to Final Review

43:25 44:15,22
45:1 51:4,11
51:21,25 55:4
58:13,16,25
59:6

Petitioner's 5:15
Philadelphia

19:11,12
pick 10:14
picked 8:20 53:1
plain 14:13
plaintiff 4:16
14:15 19:15
59:23

plaintiffs 17:24
25:15,19 28:2
34:3 46:8
54:14

plant 43:6
plausibility

15:13,13 16:8
25:10

plausible 12:8
14:16,18 15:6
15:9,10 21:18
22:12 33:19
40:22 53:12
62:5

plausibly 62:12
plead 3:25 34:4
38:22,25 59:19
pleaded 39:1,2,5

43:1

pleaders 11:17
pleading 4:7,11

11:24 12:4
19:6 20:14
34:3,10,16,20
36:21 37:4,11
37:14,15,16
38:15,19 40:21
41:23 43:22
47:15,18 52:24
53:12,25 61:16
pleadings 12:24

23:14 53:4

pleads 5:4

please 3:10 14:1

28:23

point 4:5,14 6:9
7:4 8:19 16:14
19:7 23:9 26:6
27:25 28:1
43:20 51:2,3
51:12,13 61:12

points 22:21
police 19:11,13
policies 28:3
policy 5:25 6:8
6:11,11,21,21
7:1,25 8:5,9,9
8:20 9:5,7,7,8
9:10 10:19,20
11:4,7 16:3,4
26:1,4 29:4,5,9
29:19,23,25,25
30:7,11,11
33:13 40:24
41:5 43:2,5
44:18 45:1,3,4
45:7,10,17,19
52:15,16,20
53:22 54:2
55:1,2

posed 42:4,6

55:16

position 22:2
25:18 32:15
51:19 53:6
possibilities

10:11 33:8,12
33:25 34:1

possibility 10:12
10:13 33:12,17
33:18

possible 31:21

32:4 33:8 34:5
48:20

postpone 48:20

59:8

postponing

48:25

posture 32:11
post-9/11 52:18

potential 13:7

59:25 61:1
potentially

11:10 18:22
26:16 27:23
59:13 61:15
power 18:1,12
18:14,16,18
58:3

practice 4:23

26:4

23:18

precedents 3:24

president 13:14

13:15,18,18
14:20 15:25
19:23,24 21:11
24:20 34:11
35:6,7,8 36:22
41:1,9 42:1,9
42:12 43:9
44:9 60:5

presumption

60:6

prevent 47:8,9
prevented 33:2
price-fixing

44:10

principal 48:21
principles 38:12
prison 27:18

57:18

prisoner 27:17
prisoners 32:6
prisons 58:4
private 26:25
probable 10:15
probably 15:11

15:17 18:3
42:10,20

problem 8:24

10:16 18:17,19
20:13 39:9
42:4,6,8 49:5,6
52:7

problematic

17:1,10

problems 16:22

procedure 10:2

21:23

18:3

procedures
42:11,12

proceedings

60:18

process 8:15,24
produced 39:4
program 26:3
prohibit 34:3
proof 58:7
proper 9:15

50:20

properly 17:21
protect 24:25
protection 20:19

20:23 21:9
34:21,21,23,25
36:2 38:9 50:7
50:13

protections 5:18
25:2 36:16,18

prove 15:14
32:22 48:23
proven 15:11
provided 25:25
provides 38:9
proving 55:15
provisions 18:11
public 31:9
purpose 6:24

52:17

purposes 8:14
put 13:15 14:20

21:14 56:2
58:7

putting 16:1
41:2,9 43:3

Q

qualified 3:11
4:6,11,15,25
5:6,14,16
12:15,22 24:24
26:19 34:22

36:3,16,17
38:9 43:22
48:3 50:8,9
51:10,13 58:9
58:18 62:2

qualified-imm...

17:1 47:20

question 5:4,6,8

5:11,12 9:6
12:21 13:13,22
17:20 18:13
19:4,9,21
26:21 29:23
30:3 31:3 34:1
37:25 40:8,8
40:20 41:7,24
42:19 51:21
52:3 53:11
61:21,23
questioning
31:7 34:9

questions 22:19

22:20 23:9
24:9 36:15

quite 11:20 20:3

21:12 35:17
36:6

quote 7:11
quoting 25:23

R

R 3:1
race 45:25 46:4

46:9 54:23
56:8,16

racial 10:19
40:24 47:25
52:16 54:20
55:1,2 57:25
58:6

raise 8:15
raised 15:23
41:18 51:4
52:8

rats 42:13
reach 23:2
read 6:20 20:16

71

Alderson Reporting Company

21:7 44:21
47:2 52:13

Reading 20:20

20:22

reality 17:11
really 19:21
21:17 24:21
26:21 31:2
43:14 53:20
realm 61:6,7
reason 13:16
18:20 40:16
46:18 47:24
54:15 56:20
61:4,13

reasonable 60:2
reasonableness

51:24 58:19

reasonably

36:13 46:25
47:5

reasons 4:18
11:1 17:24
47:25

REBUTTAL

2:7 58:24

recognize 18:23
recognized 4:20

5:3 12:20

record 25:21

59:2

reduce 35:4
refer 53:4
reference 6:20
6:24 25:6 38:8
52:20

referred 31:9
36:19 48:9

referring 51:9
regularity 60:6
Reinert 1:19 2:5

28:19,20,22
30:2,8,20 31:5
31:16 32:9,24
33:4,22 34:15
34:19 35:9,11
35:14 36:5,9

37:3,12 38:7
38:18 39:6,15
39:18,23 40:4
41:3,16,21
42:4,14,17,20
43:11,15,19
44:13 45:11,14
47:12 48:6,16
48:25 49:12,17
49:19,24 50:2
50:14,18 54:4
54:13,18 55:11
55:22 56:3,6
56:12,18,22
57:1,6,12,20
58:16 59:16
62:18

rejected 21:20
37:13,15,16
related 22:20
release 16:4
released 46:2
releasing 11:10

45:4

14:16 15:6

religion 45:25
46:4,9 52:20
56:8,16

religious 52:16
rely 18:21 58:14

58:17 61:14
relying 61:7
remainder

28:16

remaining 58:23
remember 18:3
removed 26:11
reply 27:16

29:11

report 25:8,15

25:20,22,23,24
30:22 31:8,14
31:18 39:25
54:6

reports 25:9
representations

relief 12:2 14:13

respondeat 6:1

Official - Subject to Final Review

require 32:16

20:16

44:12

required 9:25
13:6 36:24
38:15

requirement
12:6 37:10

requires 38:20

59:22

reserve 28:16
resolve 43:23

51:1

52:1

resolving 43:24

resort 24:6
respect 8:25 9:9

25:18 27:11
49:21 50:8,24
62:3

respectfully

respects 3:20

57:1

58:12

42:21

Respondents

1:20 2:6 28:21

responding
21:10 52:7
response 8:11

37:9

responsibilities

30:18 38:4
responsible

17:14 34:2,6
42:12 43:9

restrictive 45:24

46:3

rests 40:21
result 49:8

53:21

resulted 55:2
resulting 8:11
retaliatory

27:19

reversed 62:14

reviewing 33:9
re-filing 49:4
rid 23:20 24:15
right 5:3 9:13

14:25,25 15:21
18:9 32:11
33:23 44:25
46:13 47:8
51:7 57:19
59:12 61:11,12
61:17,18,19,25
rights 3:23 5:10
rigor 36:24 38:5
Riot 20:16,20,22

21:7

24:18

Rizzo 19:8 23:17

ROBERTS 3:3

7:24 8:13
12:13 20:20,22
21:3 28:17,19
32:1 34:8,17
36:21 37:8,17
38:13 41:19,22
44:4 45:5,12
57:17 58:15,22
62:15,18

rule 14:6,8,9,10
14:12,14 15:2
18:6 19:7,18
20:12 21:11
22:12 23:25
24:4,12 26:18
30:9 34:25
35:1 44:20
48:9 60:17

rules 10:1 11:24

13:23 14:4,6
14:25 17:21
18:2 20:6
36:18 38:8

run 16:7
S
S 2:1 3:1
sanitary 43:6
Sawyer 31:23

saying 8:16

22:21,24 23:25
32:3,4 41:10
44:21 54:17,23
54:25 55:6

says 6:7 7:7 11:7
11:23 13:16,19
14:5,19 18:8
20:8 25:23
26:10,10 29:4
30:9 31:18
35:2,2,18 46:6
46:6,7 50:20
54:22 57:25

Scalia 32:19,25
33:4,11 35:22
36:6,7,9 39:1,7
39:14,16,20,23
40:2,5 55:20
55:23 56:4,6
56:10,15,19,22
56:25 57:2
61:17

scattered 53:24
schedules 17:18
scheme 44:10
scope 12:17,20
scrutiny 58:2
second 4:3 5:2,2

16:22 18:13
23:3,3,9,19
28:14 35:14,17
38:10 43:20,23
48:6 49:1 50:2
50:5,19,20
59:4,16 60:4
62:14

secondly 25:20
section 5:23

11:16 19:9,15
19:18 21:20
24:2,17

security 38:4
see 18:8 27:9

43:9

seek 34:21
seeking 38:10

72

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

separable 51:22
separated 51:15

52:5

September

30:22 34:13
39:18

seriously 15:23
set 6:7 10:9

14:24

sets 11:3 29:3
setting 39:3
seven 13:17
Sherman 11:16

24:2

show 14:16

15:17,18 21:7
45:8 47:4
59:23

showing 14:13

45:9

shows 14:18
22:17 29:1
48:2

sides 38:12
signed 20:14,15
similar 12:17
21:25 42:19

simply 5:20 8:19

22:17 24:12
53:25 55:8
single 36:1
situation 10:22

11:5 48:7

sloppy 42:11
softball 40:8
solely 37:9 46:8
47:25 56:8,10
56:19

Solicitor 1:16

40:5

solution 49:7,7
solve 18:17,19
somebody 15:21
sorry 7:6 17:19

21:3 34:17
41:21 57:17
58:14

sort 8:22 16:16

62:7

sorts 21:15

22:18

sound 5:25
sounds 12:13

47:5

Souter 5:19 6:5

6:18 9:4,12
10:6 11:14
15:8,20 16:18
17:4,8 33:6
40:4,7,11 41:6
52:2 54:5,11
54:16 55:6

Souter's 41:24
specific 7:12,15

30:5,14,15
31:4 40:15
53:4,12

specifically
18:21 30:9

specificity 44:11
speculative

15:18

spend 13:22
squishier 10:22
stage 9:16 32:16
47:15,18 50:10

standard 12:4
13:1,4,5 16:8
36:22 37:4,5
37:20 41:23
43:17,22 59:21
60:7,17,20

standards 23:14

34:10,16,20
53:13 59:18,19
61:16

start 28:24
starting 40:12
state 4:5 8:23
10:4 36:24
51:6 58:7,8

stated 3:22 4:12
statement 9:17

9:24 10:23

14:11,13 31:12
31:25

states 1:1,13
3:13 12:12
13:7 16:16
17:12 22:16
26:15 27:20
29:12,13,14
40:23 42:3
62:13

State's 58:3
statute 49:5,10
stave 4:16
stayed 49:22,25
steps 50:20
Stevens 21:16
22:1,3 26:20
27:4,9 42:8,15
42:17,18 43:5
43:12,13,17
48:13,17 60:9
60:16,21
stop 15:1
strict 58:1
stronger 22:10
subject 3:17
6:16 13:6
21:23 26:16
27:24 28:3
46:8 60:11

subjected 20:25
subjecting 19:1

19:1

62:21

19:17

60:2

submitted 62:19

subordinates

subsidiary 12:8

substance 39:4
substantive 12:1

12:5 13:1,3,5
19:7,18 22:12
37:5 38:21,23
59:18,19,20
sub-question

23:4

sues 13:14
sufficient 3:17

8:15 10:7 21:6
45:21 55:18

sufficiently

51:14

suggest 16:15
26:15 44:22
52:6

suggested 25:25
suggesting 12:8

15:18 31:11
43:13

suggests 31:14
51:22 53:20
suits 20:7 50:6
summary 4:17

8:19

superior 6:1

42:22

supervisory

3:14 5:11 12:7
13:1,9 23:12
23:15 59:21
support 16:11

54:20

suppose 46:20
46:20 47:2,23
48:1

supposed 41:25

61:9

Supreme 1:1,13
sure 9:17 11:13

20:18 31:2
40:8 52:4

surely 56:4,15
surprising 46:12

46:14 52:19
suspected 26:2

54:8

suspects 8:6,6
9:11 11:4,10
46:11,15

sustain 6:16

24:6

swept 56:17
57:13,17

73

Alderson Reporting Company

sympathetic

21:17

system 7:13

26:13 57:14,15

T

T 2:1,1
take 13:17 15:22

20:12 38:23
42:1

taken 11:21
12:10 26:8
takes 11:15
talk 10:18 24:19

44:19

talking 11:25
18:25 24:21
33:2

targeted 31:6
taught 18:4
tell 18:14 47:3

52:9

tells 40:15
tension 9:14
tensions 9:16
terribly 6:13

44:11

terrorism 54:9

57:11
test 24:5
testify 60:18
tests 4:10
thank 3:9 28:17
28:18 58:21,22
59:1 62:15,17
theories 33:23
theory 29:1

42:22 43:17
thing 29:5,9

32:20

things 35:2
think 5:3,12 6:4
6:5,9,10,15,19
6:24 7:2 8:9
9:2,8,13 11:2,3
11:12,21 12:4
14:2 15:10,20

Official - Subject to Final Review

16:7,9,12,12
16:21 19:3,3,7
19:18 21:11
22:2,10,11
23:13,16,22
24:3,14,16
25:6,11 26:14
27:24 28:24,25
30:4,17,25
31:10,16 32:13
32:15 34:15,19
37:13,24 38:8
38:10 39:11
40:13 41:3,3,9
41:16,25 42:4
42:5,7 43:12
43:19,23 45:14
46:6 47:3,11
47:15,23 50:23
51:8,25 52:8
52:13 53:3
54:5 55:11,12
55:18 56:7
57:23 59:12,16
60:21,25 61:22

thinking 13:16
14:21 53:16
Third 61:3,24
thought 12:2

14:10 21:13,21
36:2 37:17,19
47:2

thousands 56:20
threat 55:16
throw 40:7
time 13:19,22
17:3 28:16
47:9,10 53:7
62:13

times 6:21 18:25
today 11:24 51:7
tort 28:9,12,13
totally 15:21

transferred

54:25

27:18

treatment 25:8

trial 26:22 27:5

28:25

50:17

tried 43:23
true 15:12 29:14

29:16 37:6
40:18 45:2
55:17 61:20

truly 18:11
trust 18:24
try 60:14
trying 45:15
turns 20:17 53:7
twice 11:22,22

25:17

Twitty 27:15
two 3:19 4:18

6:6 10:11
22:19,20,21
33:8,8,11,22
47:7 48:21
49:21 51:16,22
52:5 54:1
59:19,20

Twombly 17:21
23:5 24:11,15
type 13:2 37:22
types 6:6
typical 25:19

U

ultimately 34:6

49:8 53:9
uncertainty

10:18

unconstitutio...

33:21 42:24

underlying

underscores

37:10

27:25

understand

38:18 48:15
understanding

35:1

understood

37:25

undue 43:8
uniform 7:13

26:13

United 1:1,13
3:13 12:12
13:6 16:16
17:12 22:16
26:15 27:20
40:23 42:2
62:12

universe 57:8
unlawful 33:21

34:1

unrelated 48:1
urge 25:22
usually 4:6

V

v 1:6 23:24 51:8

56:14 57:24
58:2,11 60:22
vagueness 10:18
valid 33:14
versus 3:5 4:22
40:15 55:10
61:10

vexatious 59:13
view 4:14 46:20

54:20

views 60:8
violated 5:9

57:19

violation 3:22
15:15 21:20
22:25 37:22
violence 58:5,6

W

wait 24:11,15
wake 37:1
want 13:21

17:25 19:21
21:23 25:21
31:23 34:25
40:7 44:13
46:16,18 47:3
47:19 48:8

51:2,3 54:19
wanted 23:2,9

wants 14:23
Washington 1:9

60:9

1:17

wasn't 10:14

21:5 39:3
53:21 56:10
57:4

way 8:22 9:15

10:14,25 12:17
17:21 36:20
42:15 44:22
45:15 51:1
52:1,13,13
54:5,25

Wednesday

1:10

weed 18:22

61:15

weeks 39:18
weigh 61:10
weren't 44:2
we'll 40:2,2
we're 10:21,21

12:3 24:21
38:1 57:7

we've 8:3 45:16
45:18 49:13,13
wholeheartedly

59:15

wide 56:16
Wilkie 12:18
willfully 5:24
win 47:7 61:12

61:17

wondering 23:3
word 15:9,9

59:7

words 8:16
work 13:12

18:17 21:12
works 24:13
world 15:22
wouldn't 42:16

42:20 51:7

wrestling 44:5
wrong 11:14
wrongdoers

11:11

wrongdoing
3:15 19:12
22:14 31:15
59:24,25
wrote 60:22

X

x 1:2,8

Y

years 17:22 48:5

49:12

yesterday 11:25
Yonkers 1:19

Z
zero 35:4
0

07-1015 1:6 3:4

1

1 11:16 21:20
24:2 51:12
10 1:10 6:10

48:5

10:04 1:14 3:2
11 6:10 11:24
20:12 21:11
24:12 34:13

11th 30:22 39:19
11:05 62:20
12(b)(6) 4:7,9,14

4:21 10:2
50:10

12(e) 48:9
14a 5:7
158 26:7
164a 7:5
168 29:6
172 29:7
173 29:7
18 26:7
1983 19:9,15,18

74

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

9

9(b) 30:9 44:20

44:22

9/11 8:11 16:24
26:2 32:8 37:2
46:11 47:6
48:1 55:16,25
58:12,17

9/11-connected

47:1

94 30:12
96 29:5,7,14

30:8,13 45:17
45:18,22 46:1
46:6,6

97 5:23 30:13

24:17

2

2 51:13
200-page 25:15
2001 34:14
2008 1:10
25 48:18
26 18:6
26(b)(2)(C) 61:5
26(e)(2) 35:1
28 2:6

3

3 2:4 49:12

58:23
30 48:18
4

4 18:4
40 26:7
47 26:7 30:12
48 7:4,12,19

26:10 54:10,19
54:21,23

49 54:22
5

50 7:17
51 7:17
58 2:9

6
600 50:11
67a 59:7
69 6:9 8:5 9:10
28:24 29:1,3,6
29:12,13 45:1
45:22

7
70 25:22
700 54:9
8

8 14:6,8,9,10,12

15:2 24:1,4
26:18

75

Alderson Reporting Company

