1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
         
MINISTRY OF DEFENSE AND 
: 
           
: 
SUPPORT FOR THE ARMED 
           
FORCES OF THE ISLAMIC 
: 
               
:
REPUBLIC OF IRAN, 
          
 Petitioner 
:
                       
:  No. 07-615 
                  
DARIUSH ELAHI. 
: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, January 12, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 11:07 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
DAVID J. BEDERMAN, ESQ., Atlanta, Ga.; on behalf of

 the Petitioner. 

DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ., Assistant to the

 Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington,
 D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae. 

CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of

 the Respondent. 

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S 
ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
DAVID J. BEDERMAN, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ.


                     

3


 On behalf of the United States, as amicus

 curiae 

                                         

22


CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.

 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

32


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

DAVID J. BEDERMAN, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

54


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (11:07 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument next in Case 07-615, Ministry of Defense and 
Support For the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran versus Elahi.

 Mr. Bederman.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID J. BEDERMAN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Mr. Chief Justice, good 

morning and may it please the Court:

 At the heart of this appeal is a matter of 

statutory construction.  Respondent received $2.3 
million in public funds under the Victims Protection and 
Terrorism Risk Insurance Act.  TRIA provides, and this 
is at the blue brief, page 11a, that a party electing to 
receive such funds must relinquish rights with respect 
to enforcement against property that is at issue in 
claims against the United States before an international 
tribunal or that is the subject of awards by such 
tribunal.

 The property in question here is the Cubic 

judgment.  Respondent renounced rights to attach the 
Cubic judgment because in case B/61 before the 
Iran-United States Claims Tribunal at the Hague the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

United States has demanded that any awards Iran receives 
in its claim against the United States be set off by the 
amount of the Cubic judgment.  This can only occur if 
the Cubic judgment is released from Respondent's lien 
and is remitted to Iran's Ministry of Defense.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, they could 

have agreed that they have a bank account somewhere and 
any amounts would be set off by that.  That wouldn't 
make that bank account at issue with respect to their 
claim.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  No, in that scenario I agree 

with you, Mr. Chief Justice, that that would not be 
implicated, because I think the clear import of the 
statutory language here that Congress is trying to 
achieve is that being at issue -- as you'll notice, the 
statutory provision in 201(c) is disjunctive.  It refers 
to claims against the United States -- at issue in 
claims against the United States before an international 
tribunal, or that is the subject of an award.  So I 
think the disjunctive character of the statute might 
indicate that the at-issue prong includes a broader set 
of property than would be indicated possibly by the 
"subject of an award."

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So it doesn't matter 
that Iran recognizes that this would be used to set off 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

a judgment it might obtain, because you just said, well 
they could -- a bank account could be used to set it off 
and that's not sufficient.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Well, the mutual -- let me be 

clear.  The mutual position of Iran and the United 
States before the Claims Tribunal is that the Cubic 
judgment, because it's related to a claim within the 
tribunal's jurisdiction -- and I think that's a key 
limiting principle here.  The United States would not be 
entitled to set off amounts in bank accounts that are 
attributable to other parties or other aspects that are 
not implicated in claims or defenses before the 
tribunal.

 So clearly an examination of the tribunal's 

jurisdiction and the relevant claims or defenses that 
are before the tribunal is relevant here.  Petitioner is 
not espousing a position before this Court that any 
inchoate property located anywhere in the world would be 
blanketed with immunity under this provision.  It's not 
necessary to reach that conclusion in order to find for 
Petitioner here.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The United States at some 

stage told the tribunal in The Hague that the Cubic 
judgment -- and now I'm quoting -- "has nothing to do 
with matters before the international tribunal." 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

"Nothing to do with."

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes, that is the language 

used by the United States in a memorial before the 
tribunal.  The United States has also indicated, and 
this is clear in the gray brief at pages 81 in note 32 
and the gray brief at pages 83 to 85, and in the 
lodgment, that if -- if Iran receives an award in case 
B/61 it must be offset or set off, or "recouped" is 
sometimes the language used in the correspondence 
between the two governments before the tribunal, by the 
amount of the Cubic judgment.

 I won't speak for the United States position 

before the tribunal.  The United States is here to do 
that, of course, Justice Ginsburg.  But the only way I 
can interpret that remark is to indicate that obviously 
before the tribunal is the issue of the United States' 
obligations to Iran under the Algiers Accords.  The 
Cubic judgment deals, of course, with the private 
disposition of the contractual relationship between 
Iran's Ministry of Defense and the Cubic military 
contractor.

 Now Respondents take the position that these 

two make the matters unrelated.  But if you review 
carefully the tribunal's jurisdiction as encompassing 
both claims and counterclaims, and according to the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Algiers Accords in the claims settlement declaration, 
counterclaims include that which arises out of the same 
contract, transaction or occurrence that constitutes the 
subject matter of the claim.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  There is no counterclaim 

stated before the tribunal as of this moment.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  I'm sorry, I didn't hear the 

first.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  There is no counterclaim 

in the case before the tribunal.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  That's right.  The United 

States did not file a formal counterclaim in case B/61, 
but it has made a demand for a setoff.  And within the 
tribunal rules, a setoff can be the subject of notice 
under Rule 19-3 or an amendment or certainly comes under 
waiver of objection provision in Rule 30.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I was going to ask that 
question.  In other words, there are cases or at least 
it is contemplated that there will be cases under the 
rules, where the Iran-U.S. Claims Tribunal does 
determine that there should or should not be an offset.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  There -- there certainly have 

been cases, if you are speaking of the tribunal's 
earlier jurisprudence in terms of offsetting claims.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Yes. 

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes, there has certainly been 

ample tribunal precedent which the United States has 
relied upon in making this demand for a setoff.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But assuming -- assuming 

the tribunal takes up some such issue as Justice Kennedy 
has mentioned, it will start with the assumption that 
the Cubic judgment is in fact a valid judgment.  It will 
not look behind the Cubic judgment as such, will it?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Of course, the validity of 

the Cubic judgment does remain on appeal when the Ninth 
Circuit --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But that's an entirely 

separate proceeding.  Assuming the Cubic judgment has 
not been reversed through the appellate process that it 
is going through, then the tribunal will take the Cubic 
judgment as it finds it.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  I would assume it would.  And 

I assume --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  Doesn't it make it 
pretty tough to say that the Cubic judgment is at issue?
 MR. BEDERMAN:  No, Justice Souter.  If -- if 

we understand Congress' -- I don't -- I think this 
matter can be resolved by a straightforward textual 
approach in looking at TRIA section 201(c).  Evidently, 
though, if we are looking at congressional intent here, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it is to protect the United States' litigation position 
before the tribunal.  To allow the attachment of the 
Cubic judgment would simply be allowing Respondent to 
remove a source of money that would be available --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  I mean, I think we 

understand that.  And -- and it's clear that the United 
States, in effect, is taking the position that that's 
all we need to bear in mind.  But it suggests to me that 
the drafting of the statute did not go as far as it 
might have gone to protect the interests of the United 
States.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  I won't speak, of course, for 
the United States' position.  The Petitioner's position 
is that where property has been identified to the 
tribunal as being related to a claim or defense within 
its jurisdiction, and the availability of that property 
affects the relief that can be granted by the tribunal, 
it is at issue.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Explain to me why it 

would effect the relief?  Because suppose Iran doesn't 
get the proceeds of the Cubic judgment, but instead a 
creditor of Iran, in this case Elahi, a creditor gets 
it.  It should still be -- you've paid the -- Iran's 
bill.  Iran owes money to X.  Why shouldn't the United 
States equally get the credit whether the Cubic judgment 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

in the end is pocketed by Iran or by Iran's creditor, 
Elahi?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Well, obviously we await the 
tribunal's award in this respect.  And I believe, based 
on the tribunal's past precedents, the benefit in terms 
of finding a breach of the Algiers Accords as it would 
or it must in this case to find in favor of Iran, would 
indicate that the benefits accruing for certain setoffs 
must ultimately come back to Iran in order to be 
credited in the way that you suggest.

 I think it is an improper position to 

suggest that if a creditor of Iran or Iran's Ministry of 
Defense in this instance can claim or assert the lien so 
that somehow it's credited to Iran's account, so to 
speak, in calculating the setoff of the tribunal.  That 
has not been the tribunal's jurisprudence in terms of 
examining the implications of a breach by the United 
States under the Algiers Accords.  And in a number of 
cases --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Would you -- something 

that I would just like clarification on.  You mentioned 
that the Cubic judgment is on appeal to the Ninth 
Circuit.  It has been on appeal since June of '98?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes, ma'am.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And there are cross 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

appeals.  What are the positions taken about that 
judgment by the respective sides, and why is it pending 
for ten years?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  That has been a mystery to me 
as well.  In fact, there has been a resolution by Cubic 
Defense Systems and Iran's Ministry of Defense and as 
soon as the Court renders its judgment in this case, 
that matter will finally move to disposition.  It is a 
bit odd that the underlying issue of Cubic's objections 
to the district court's enforcement of the International 
Chamber of Commerce or ICC arbitral award has pended for 
so long.  I would have thought, logically, it would have 
made more sense to have disposed of those issues and 
then allow the disposition of the liens to be resolved 
by the Court.

 Essentially, it is Cubic's appeal 

challenging aspects of the district court's enforcement 
under the New York convention of the ICC arbitral award. 
I think to the extent that there is a counterclaim it's 
simply that there were some bases for support of the 
judgment which Iran's Ministry of Defense would have put 
forward in addition to the district court.  That's what 
I understand in terms of the ruling of Judge Brewster 
originally in the district court on this manner.
 So, yes, it is unfortunate that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

underlying validity of the Cubic judgment still remains 
open as a matter of appeal.

 But again to return to your point, 

Justice Ginsburg, in Cases 815 and 821 before the 
tribunal this question of what would be the 
implications, financial and otherwise, for the United 
States being found by the tribunal to be in breach of 
the Algiers Accords because of the failure of not 
allowing the export of Iranian property or repatriation 
of Iranian property to the United States has been 
explicated.  And, in fact, in already one instance the 
tribunal has found the United States to be in breach of 
Algiers Accords obligations.

 So again, I can't speak for what a ruling in 

the tribunal would be.  All I can suggest is certainly 
the Iranian position before the tribunal would be that 
in the instance that if Mr. Elahi or any other lienor 
were successful in attaching the Cubic judgment that in 
such a situation it should not be credited as a setoff 
under these circumstances.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Could -- let's assume 
that the -- that Iran is able to execute on the Cubic 
judgment.  Could it take the proceeds out of the United 
States, given the 2007 blocking order?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Well, I mean, the issue of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the secretary of state's October 2007 designation, which 
I think is what you are referring to, is a late 
development in this case.  Of course, that occurred 
three months after the Ninth Circuit's amended opinion.

 My submission to this Court is that the 

appropriate disposition, assuming the Court well takes 
Petitioner's position that Respondent has actually 
relinquished its claim under TRIA, is to remand back to 
the district court, because then we would have two new 
sets of lienors, Mr. Raffi and Mr. Rubin.  It would be 
before the district court that factual issues like 
whether the designation of the "Ministry of Defense and 
Armed Forces Logistics," which is what is actually named 
in the blocking order, actually covers the Ministry of 
Defense and Support for the Armed Forces of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran, who is your Petitioner today.

 The issue of whether designations cover 

particular entities or aliases of entities is an 
intensity factual one; the D.C. Circuit in the National 
Council of Resistance case, Chief Justice Roberts, an 
opinion you are well aware of at the D.C. Circuit. 
These are intensely factual inquiries about whether 
aliases of particular organizations are covered by 
designations.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You mentioned -- you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

mentioned that there were other claimants or others --
others who would like to execute --

MR. BEDERMAN:  Other lienors.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- other lienors -- other 

attachments.  And so, you said in the end -- well --
well, what would be the effect of those other liens?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  My understanding, 

Justice Ginsburg, is in both the cases of Mr. Rubin and 
Mr. Raffi, as far as I am aware, they have not made the 
relinquishment election under TRIA as Dr. Elahi has done 
here.  And because they have not made the relinquishment 
proviso, they would not be subject to the at-issue 
question that is now before the Court.

 Iran's Ministry of Defense has other 

substantive defenses against their liens, which we 
appropriately presented before the district court.

 The only submission I am making to this 

Court at this time is that it is not necessary for this 
Court exercising plenary authority to decide whether 
it's a blocked asset.  That is appropriate for remand 
because, notwithstanding the U.S. position, I think 
there are questions of whether your Petitioner is a 
covered entity under the -- under the designation, and 
whether in fact it is the beneficial owner, whether 
Iran's Air Force is the beneficial owner of this claim. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

And there are other substantive defenses that claim 
retroactivity, as well.  So, again, I just don't think 
it's appropriate --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But going back to the main 
issue, the only reason that this is at issue before the 
Iran tribunal is because it might be a setoff in the 
event of judgment in favor of Iran?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes.  Whether it is available 

for setoff.  And again, I want to be clear that --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That's the -- that's 

the only basis for your argument?  I thought it was a 
broader suggestion that these are, to some extent, 
substitute assets for the assets that are at issue?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Well, I mean, that may be one 
useful analytic in thinking about this.  I was trying in 
imagining the interest of the Court in understanding the 
tribunal's jurisdiction under the Algiers Accords and 
what the tribunal has already ruled, and that's why I 
think respectful consideration might be appropriate 
here, inasmuch as the tribunal, in interpreting its 
jurisdiction under the Algiers Accords, which is 
essentially its organic instrument, has made a 
determination in Case B/66 that the substantive 
contracts at issue here between Cubic and the Iranian 
Air Force are at issue in case B/61. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Can you -- can you 

articulate a general test in a sentence or two about how 
you decide whether particular assets are at issue?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes.  I will repeat the one I 

-- I rendered before because I think it is the most 
useful analytic, and I -- I take no credit.  This is 
essentially Judge Fisher's analysis in the dissent 
below.  As he indicated, that -- that -- where property 
has been identified to the Tribunal -- and certainly the 
Cubic judgment and the proceedings that have occurred in 
the Federal district court in -- in Southern California 
and now the Ninth Circuit and now here have been 
identified to the Tribunal in mutual representations and 
undertakings by the parties.  Where this property has 
been identified to the Tribunal as being related to a 
claim or defense within the Tribunal's jurisdiction --
and I think that is the key limiting principle here. 
That's -- there is a criticism that an expansive reading 
of TRIA's "At Issue" provision will allow Iran and the 
United States, as unlikely as it sounds, to mutually 
collude to cover various properties and assets around 
the world, I think noting that the -- that the Cubic 
judgment is within the Court's jurisdiction as 
understood under the Algiers Accords Claims Settlement 
Declaration, Article 2, paragraph 3. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

And then the second prong is that the 

availability of that property affects the relief that 
can be granted by the Tribunal.  And, again, we are not 
hypothesizing here.  The Tribunal has already indicated 
in cases like Owens Corning, Futura Trading and Computer 
Services, that when you have a situation avoiding a 
double recovery, that a setoff derived from collateral 
proceedings, even absent privity of contract with the 
sovereign seeking adjustment and with respect to 
different causes of action, a setoff is still 
appropriate within the Tribunal.

 So it's both an avoidance of a -- of a 
double-recovery rule and also a notion that a -- a 
certain offset is -- is related as within the -- the 
jurisdiction of the tribunal as arising again from the 
same contract transaction or occurrence.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  "At Issue" means related to 

-- "At Issue" means related to an issue in a separate 
case.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  I mean --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  That's what it boils down 

to, doesn't it?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Petitioner is not taking the 

same --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, doesn't it? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. BEDERMAN:  No, Your Honor.  I'm sorry. 

The Petitioner's position is slightly more modulated 
than the United States.  The United States' position 
here is all it has to be is relevant.  I -- I will leave 
it to the Court to -- to speak with the United States 
about that in a moment.

 I think a more nuanced understanding of the 
Tribunal's jurisdiction is appropriate here.  Is -- and 
here there is no question, based on the materials that 
you have not only in the joint appendix but also in the 
lodgment, that the Cubic contracts have been identified 
to the Tribunal.  And now the Cubic judgment as an 
offset has a setoff -- or "recoupment" is sometimes the 
language used in the diplomatic exchanges and filings 
before the Tribunal -- has now been identified to the 
Tribunal.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Is it the case that there 

are two other individuals who have attached this 
judgment?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes, Justice Breyer.  I think 

I spoke about that a moment ago.  That would be --

JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  And is it the 

case that Iran's position in respect to those 
attachments is that those attachments, insofar as they 
are valid and executed, require a setoff from whatever 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

we owe Iran or vice-versa?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  My understanding, if you are 

speaking of me characterizing the United States' 
position --

JUSTICE BREYER:  No.  I'm saying I take 

it from something I have read in this that Iran believes 
that if, in fact, it won a judgment and that judgment is 
from someone like Cubic --

MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  -- who they thought was 

prevented from delivering planes because of the embargo 
-- so it was relevant -- that that judgment, which they 
get if they collect on it, should be deducted from other 
money the United States owes them.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes, and --
JUSTICE BREYER:  -- unless instead of them 

getting it, the attacher gets it.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  It's the --
JUSTICE BREYER:  The attachee gets it.
 MR. BEDERMAN:  It's the "unless," I suppose, 

that, of course, Iran objects to.  It is that in order 
for the setoff to be effective within the Tribunal's 
jurisprudence and jurisdiction, Iran's Ministry of 
Defense or -- or the --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Has to get the money for 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the attaching person.  That's my point.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes, sir.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  And so that is at issue 

before the -- and -- and it is at issue in those cases. 
If the person who attaches it gets the money rather than 
Iran, Iran will say:  We do not have to have a setoff.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  I agree.  If it's at issue --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Isn't that right or --
MR. BEDERMAN:  Correct.  If it's at --
JUSTICE BREYER:  And that is the same 

question that you think would be presented through this 
attachment, is that right?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  I thought that's what we were 

speaking of:  The status of the Cubic judgment and --
and Dr. Elahi's attachment of the --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Dr. Elahi is one of several 

persons, is that right?

 MR. BEDERMAN:  That is correct.  There is a 

queue of individuals who have lined up to -- to --

JUSTICE BREYER:  What I'm trying to get at 
is Iran's position vis-a-vis the Elahi judgment is the 
same as its position vis-a-vis the other two attachments 
on the Elahi judgment.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes, sir.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  That if Iran ends up with 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the money, you can subtract it from other money the 
United States owes them.  But if the attaching people 
end up with the money, you cannot.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  So it's "At Issue" -- I am --
I am sorry for having been so opague.  It is "At Issue" 
in the sense of "joinder at issue," a legitimate 
disagreement between the parties.  And its also "At 
Issue," I believe -- I think in the sense that Congress 
intended by this provision of saying that the funds are 
available for a tribunal ruling.  And, therefore, to 
allow an attachment under these circumstances would 
frustrate the United States' litigation position.  So 
any way you parse what "At Issue" means --

JUSTICE BREYER:  You would take the same 

position if, in fact, this money which is owed to Iran 
by -- by Cubic -- that is, Cubic, which then Iran got a 
judgment on -- instead of a judgment in favor of Iran, 
Cubic had written them a check, and they had taken the 
check and bought a house in Manhattan, or they had put 
it in an Iranian bank account, and either Mr. Elahi or 
one of the other two people sought to attach the bank 
account or the house or the grocery store, which they 
might have also have used.  Am I right --

MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  -- or wrong? 

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. BEDERMAN:  Yes, Justice Breyer, you are 

correct.  There is a concern, which is a very natural 
concern, that the more attenuated you get, can you 
attribute a particular property, whether it's a bank 
account or a -- or a New York condo --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't see why either is 

the slightest a bit more attenuated.  In either case 
they are owned by the Ministry of Defense of Iran.

 MR. BEDERMAN:  I would certainly concur; 
and, if I may, I will reserve the balance of my time.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Bederman.

 Mr. Hallward-Driemeier.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER

 ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,

 AS AMICUS CURIAE

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Mr. Chief Justice, 

and may it please the Court:

 The United States does not appear here today 
in support of Iran, but, rather, in defense of critical 
interests of the United States before the United States-
Iran Claims Tribunal.  In particular, the holding of the 
Court of Appeals that the United States never unblocked 
Iranian military assets after the Algiers accords is 
directly contrary to the position of the United States 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

before the Tribunal, and Iran immediately indicated that 
it would use that holding against the United States and 
in support of its multimillion-dollar --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But that's not saying 

that.  Isn't that -- that issue is moot?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, Your Honor, 
there is now a new and independent reason why the asset 
is blocked.  And, in fact, Respondent no longer defends 
the holding of the court of appeals on that basis.

 It is, we wish to emphasize, essential that 
this Court vacate that holding and indicate that it is 
no longer legally valid so that it is not -- that 
erroneous holding is not used against us in support of 
Iran's two-million-dollar claim.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But if we -- if we took 
the position that you are expressing about what is at 
issue, we would never reach the second question.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, we -- we 
think that the Court would not.  It would vacate the 
decision of the Court of Appeals.  It would be helpful 
certainly to the United States if the Court emphasized 
the natural fact that that would mean that the court of 
appeals' erroneous holding was not any longer legally --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But it's not our job 

to help you -- it's not our job to help you in other 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

tribunals.  If a -- if a judgment is moot, it's moot. 
We are not going to go back and tell the Ninth Circuit 
to revise its opinion just because that's helpful to 
you.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  No.  The -- the 

Court would vacate the decision, certainly.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So is it your 

position that that -- that is moot?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  It is our position 

that the -- because Respondent has relinquished his 
right to attach these assets, the decision of the court 
of appeals should be vacated.  And that would have the 
affect of rendering inoperative that erroneous -- the 
other erroneous holding of the court of appeals with 
respect to blocked assets.

 It is the position of the United States --

and we agree with Respondent on this point -- that as of 
now, because of the October, 2007, designation, the 
property of Petitioner is blocked and subject to 
attachment under TRIA.  And I don't believe there is any 
need for further proceedings on that.

 The Secretary of State designated the 
Ministry of Defense of Iran, and the position of 
Petitioner in the court of appeals on remand from this 
Court was that it is the Ministry of Defense of Iran, a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

central core constituent part of the Iranian state, that 
is the entity that was designated.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Do I understand correctly 
that that means that because it's a blocked asset, then 
Dr. Elahi can get it, but Iran itself couldn't get it?
 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Elahi, Respondent 

Elahi, could get it if he had not relinquished his 
rights to attach --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes.
 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  -- assets at issue 

before the tribunal.  As of right now, the asset is 
blocked and Iran could not repatriate it, as of right 
now.  Of course, blocking orders can be amended, but as 
of right now it is frozen and Petitioner cannot 
repatriate it.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So why isn't the 
consequence that you are so worried about under the 
Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act that 
this is going to hurt your position by the tribunal, the 
same consequence that is going to come from the fact 
that these assets are blocked?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, Your Honor, 
again, the blocking order is the present status of the 
assets.  It doesn't mean that they could not later be 
repatriated to Petitioner; whereas, execution by 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Respondent against the assets would mean that they would 
be forever denied to Petitioner.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So why wouldn't the 

United States get credit for that, too, on the theory 
that I suggested before?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, you are 

right, Your Honor, that is the position of the United 
States.  And earlier Your Honor quoted language from the 
oral argument of the United States that the -- or maybe 
it was one of our briefs -- that the Cubic judgment 
is -- that the tribunal doesn't have to --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It has nothing to do with 

matters before the --

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  That is in the 
context of our saying that, whether or not -- in the 
view of the United States, whether or not Petitioner 
ever collects that money, the United States is entitled 
to an offset, and in fact, we believe it's a complete 
defense to Iran's claim.

 Of course, Petitioner's argument -- or 
Iran's argument before the tribunal is that it is --
that the United States is entitled to a reduction of 
liability only if Iran actual receives the assets.  And 
that's why the language of the statute is written more 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

broadly when the litigation before the tribunal is 
ongoing.  At that point any property that is at issue 
before the tribunal is not subject to attachment by one 
who has relinquished, and that's because this Court nor 
any other lower court in the United States is supposed 
to pre-judge the merits of those respective positions. 
Iran's position -- and it's on page 85a of the United 
States' appendix -- is that the awarded amount, unless 
received by Iran, cannot be offset against any relief 
which the United States may be found to owe Iran.

 So that is Iran's position.  That is at 

issue before the tribunal.

 The Respondent would have the Court believe 
that the proceedings in the tribunal are in the nature 
of an in rem proceeding, that it's a property dispute. 
They use that term repeatedly in the brief, "a property 
dispute."  But that is not the nature of the proceedings 
in the tribunal.  Iran has asserted a claim that the 
United States violated its obligations under the Algiers 
Accords.  The remedy it seeks is , and I quote -- this 
is from -- excuse me -- from the -- let's see -- the 
remedy they seek -- they seek is the value of the Cubic 
sale to Canada.  They have said that in the state -- in 
Iran's reply in statement -- claim 16 that Respondent 
relies upon, they say that the remedy they seek is not 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the asset itself.

 Of course, the asset had been dissipated 

before Iran ever filed a statement of claim against the 
United States.  The remedy is the proceeds of that sale 
to Canada.  The proceeds of the sale to Canada, which 
are the subject of Iran's claim against the United 
States in the tribunal, have been reduced to judgment in 
the Cubic judgment.  That --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I guess this may be 
the same question Justice Breyer asked.  I mean, where 
do you cut this off?  You've got the proceeds from the 
sale to Canada that presumably go to Cubic, and then 
Cubic, you know, builds a new facility somewhere with 
those proceeds and then sells it to somebody else.  I 
mean, are those still assets at issue in the claims 
before the tribunal?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, I believe 

that in fact the language of the statute makes it -- the 
assertions of the parties before the tribunal that 
define the property that is at issue before the 
tribunal.  That, again, is so that the courts are not 
put in a position of adjudicating, prejudging, the 
merits of the parties' arguments before the tribunal.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that's kind of 
a -- that's a broad assertion.  In other words, so long 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

as you and Iran get together and say this asset is at 
issue in a situation where whether it's at issue or not 
saves you money and gives money to Iran, that seems to 
be a very self-serving legal test.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, Your Honor, I 
don't believe that this Court needs to consider what the 
outer reaches are.  In this case, this is -- Iran 
characterizes it, and this is at page, again, at page 85 
of the U.S. appendix, that the Cubic judgment, quote 
"constitutes an integral part of the remedy sought in 
case B/61."

 This isn't an offset or a counterclaim. 

Justice Ginsburg, you previously alluded to the fact the 
United States did not file a counterclaim.  And that's 
because this is not some unrelated counterclaim the 
United States has against Iran.  This is a critical part 
of Iran's claim against the United States.  It defeats, 
in the view of the United States, Iran's claim entirely. 
At the very least, it reduces the amount of Iran's claim 
against the United States.

 This isn't somehow unrelated; we're 

asserting, well, we can use this as an offset because 
you also owe us money from something else.  This is in 
Iran's own statement, and this is the statement that you 
--

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But how is that affected 
-- how is that affected depending on whether or not the 
judgment is executed or not.  Would the Iran tribunal 
have the authority to order Cubic not to satisfy the 
judgment, but to just hold the funds?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  I -- I don't know. 
Cubic is not before the tribunal.  But what we can ask 
is, can we conceive of -- and I think it's relatively 
easy to conceive of -- an award of the tribunal that 
says, the United States owes Iran $2.8 million; if the 
Cubic judgment is received by Iran, the United States 
owes Iran nothing.  And clearly, in that circumstance, 
the Cubic judgment is the subject of the award of the 
tribunal.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I don't know that it's the 

subject of the award.  And it's really not at issue; 
it's just recognizing that there has been some prior 
transaction.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, I guess, Your 

Honor, you have to think what does it mean for any 
property -- property to be at issue before the tribunal 
or the subject of the award?

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  It means that at the end of 

the proceeding one side or the other gets the property.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  And that is not going to be 

the -- what one side or the other gets in this 
proceeding is going to be a new judgment.  And that new 
judgment may or may not be satisfied by dealing with the 
prior judgment.  But that doesn't mean that the prior 
judgment is at issue; it simply means that the prior 
judgment may be used to discharge in an appropriate case 
an obligation which is determined in the later 
proceeding.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  If I may respond. 
Your Honor, on that view, even the ACMR is not at issue 
before the tribunal, because the tribunal cannot order 
the United States to hand over the ACMR to Iran.  In the 
A/15 judgment to which Petitioner's counsel alluded 
earlier, the tribunal recognized that it is not a 
violation of the United States' obligations under the 
Algiers Accords not to issue an export license. 
Therefore, Iran --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  So Iran --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  -- is not entitled 

to the ACMR.  It's entitled to its loss, and its loss 
has been reduced to judgment in the Cubic judgment.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Thank you, Your 

Honor. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Mr. Phillips.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, 

and may it please the Court:

 I think the previous 25 or so minutes has 

demonstrated one sort of overarching fact, which is that 
there is an enormous risk, if this Court decides to 
interpret the language of this statute broadly, that it 
will easily sweep beyond any kind of arrangements 
between Iran and the United States in ways that 
fundamentally, obviously, disadvantage the very people 
that Congress clearly intended to benefit by this entire 
statutory scheme.

 This is a scheme that was designed to 

provide remedies, recoveries, to the victims of 
terrorism.  And somehow in the scheme of everything that 
was discussed in the first 25 or so minutes of this 
argument, the victims of terrorism are completely 
shunted aside on basic -- on the basis of very technical 
ways of reading it.

 But if we go back to the language of the 

statute, which is in the Petitioner's brief at 11a, it 
talks about "enforcement against property that is at 
issue in claims against the United States."  So the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

notion that we would focus on the word "property," as it 
relates to the tribunal and that the tribunal has in 
front of it, is a natural consequence of the language of 
that provision.  And to me, at least, the best way to 
look at the logic is to review how often the United 
States has described and Iran has described what was the 
property at issue before the claims tribunal and the 
B/61 proceeding?  And this is at 65a of the joint -- of 
the government's brief:  "The property at issue consists 
of one air combat maneuvering range system and all 
necessary subparts."  There is no dispute that the 
property was within the jurisdiction of the United 
States.  Now --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So that if you had 

these military assets, which are clearly the assets that 
are at issue in Iran's claim --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Absolutely.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Cubic is worried 
about what to do with it and so they sell them to the 
Canadians but they keep the proceeds in escrow, under 
the theory that look we may end up owing this to the 
Iranians under the tribunal.  Under the setoff, this may 
not be our assets, which -- I mean the Iranians have a 
claim to these.  Would those -- would those escrow funds 
be assets at issue? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. PHILLIPS:  I think they would be because 

of the way the Iranians actually pled this.  They said 
give us either back -- give us either the military 
equipment that we bought, or give us the economic value 
of that.  But that's -- and that's why --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, why is that 
very different from this situation, where you have an 
arbitration award saying that you, Cubic, owe the 
equivalent of what you should have -- what you would 
have provided to Iran, if there hadn't been the 
revolution?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, there are two answers 
to that.  The first one is remember precisely what the 
arbitration award is.  The arbitration award is not the 
value of the asset.  That was asked for; that was 
rejected by the arbitrator.  The arbitration award is 
for the value of a separate contract between Cubic and 
the Canadian government.  You will recall in the award, 
specifically the arbitrator said with respect to the 
underlying ACMR contract with Iran, that was mutually 
walked away from by both parties, and then there was a 
separate agreement that was entered into between the 
parties, and that was the basis for the arbitration 
award saying the value of breach of that secondary 
agreement is the part that serves as the arbitral award. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

That it seems to me ought to be regarded at a minimum as 
one step too far removed, because that's not the 
property that is at issue before the claims tribunal in 
any way that the parties are disputing about it.  They 
accept that number.  And then --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Right.  So what is the --

it seems at the moment, frankly you could read it either 
way.  Let's imagine that -- that Cubic sold some jets 
that we blocked and they get some money, and they did it 
under their contract, and they got 2 million dollars. 
And suppose they said, we owe Iran this money, and they 
pay Iran the money, and Iran puts it in a bank account 
or buys the grocery store.  All right?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Now suppose that happened. 

It makes it simpler.  And then what happens is three 
people, including Mr. Elahi and two others who don't 
accept money, the other two, attach it, on the ground 
Iran owes us this money.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  We want the grocery store. 
And suppose, further, Iran then says, if they get their 
money, you cannot subtract it, United States, from what 
you owe us.  But if we get the money, then you can 
subtract it.  That's their view. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The United States' view is different.  Who 

will resolve that question?  The tribunal.  So they say, 
what is at issue is not who owns the grocery store; what 
is at issue is the question of whether we get the money 
or you get the money.  What money?  The money that is 
the value of the grocery store, or the bank account, in 
which case it's identical.

 Now I think in that situation it's easy for 

me to say that money, the grocery store, or the bank 
account, of course is at issue before the tribunal.  For 
the question is, does Iran get it or does the United 
States get it, in the situation where the two other 
people -- leaving Elahi out of it -- can attach it.  I 
can easily read it that way.  I can also read it the way 
you want.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  All right?  So now, which 

do I do?

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, you clearly -- and I 
agree with you; there is no question you can read this 
statute either way.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  I'll then add 

that the strongest argument against you, it seems to me, 
is the whole point of this was not simply to compensate 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

victims of terrorism.  That's a worthy goal, and that's 
one of the points.  But it was to compensate them 
consistent with the proper running, in the interests of 
the United States, of the Iranian-American Claims 
Tribunal.

 And so this is just the kind of issue we 

don't want to simply take away and let the victim have, 
because there is a strong risk the tribunal will rule 
against us, and we will have to pay it twice.  Okay. 
That's the argument against you.

 Now, what's the argument for you?
 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  First of all --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  A significant purpose of this 

entire exercise obviously is to provide redress to the 
victims of terrorism.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's one, but --
MR. PHILLIPS:  201(d) is a specific 

statutory construction provision which seems to suggest 
that Congress says that if there are doubts about how to 
apply this particular provision, you ought to put the 
thumb on the scale in favor of the victim.  So you do --
you will give meaning to section 201(c)(4) of the TRIA 
if you adopt a position consistent with our position.

 The reality is that given that there are two 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

more lienholders in line, none of this has anything to 
do with Iran and with the way the tribunal is going to 
proceed, because even if you were to say that Dr. Elahi 
is not entitled to this, there is no relinquishment 
claim with respect to the others, so this money is never 
going back to Iran, under any set of circumstances.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That creates the issue, 
because the question is whether money that never goes 
back to Iran, but rather goes to an attaching person, is 
money that is or money that is not subtracted from the 
amount that the United States owes Iran.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  But -- but --
JUSTICE BREYER:  And that question is the 

question --

MR. PHILLIPS:  But Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER:  -- is the question that is 

before the commission.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  But the problem with this, 

Justice Breyer, is that this is a relinquishment 
provision.  It -- it is saying to us in return for these 
limited resources, 20 percent of the judgment -- and 
that is only 20 percent of the compensatory judgment and 
completely lose the punitive judgment -- in return for 
that you have to relinquish certain rights; and it seems 
to me that Congress would not have adopted the a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

provision that said and the rights you relinquish are 
essentially unknowable under any circumstances and 
extend to the ends of the earth.  What I --

JUSTICE BREYER:  They are totally knowable. 
They are totally knowable.  In order to decide what they 
are all you have to do is to look at the issues before 
the commission and decide whether those issues concern 
specific, concrete property; that is, the property that 
you have an interest in.

 With my grocery store, with my bank account, 
and with this claim, it is absolutely specific, and Iran 
has put before the commission the question of whether if 
you pay the money to an attaching person, we don't get 
it, or we do get it.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER:  That's what I gather.  Now 

you can tell me I'm wrong on that if you want.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  The parties have been very 

specific about it, and we cited in a series of 
quotations about what is the property at issue here; and 
the property at issue, Justice Breyer is the ACMR system 
or the economic value of the ACMR system.  What is not 
at issue in this case is the value of the Cubic 
judgment.  First of all, there was an effort to bring 
the Cubic judgment specifically before the tribunal, and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it was rejected as having no jurisdiction, certainly no 
jurisdiction over Cubic and then no jurisdiction over 
the United States' part of the Cubic judgment because 
that was not a contract between --

JUSTICE BREYER:  They are trying to attach 

the ACMR system.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  They did --
JUSTICE BREYER:  They are trying to attach 

the Cubic judgment.  The ACMR judgment is in Canada.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  But that's the whole point of 
this.  The property at issue before the tribunal is the 
ACMR system, and indeed in 1981 when this was originally 
brought what Iran wanted was the ACMR system.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  And that's one piece of 

property.  The other piece of property that is at issue 
is the judgment, and the way it's at issue is I take it 
that two other people are saying, we attach it; Iran 
says because they attach it, you don't subtract it from 
the ACMR judgment; and we are saying, even though they 
attach it, you subtract it, and therefore it's before 
the tribunal as well.

 That's my understanding at the moment, and 

I'm asking you to explain why that's wrong.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Justice Breyer, there is no 

question that the fact that there are subsequent 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

lienholders in line affects the possibility, but I would 
have thought it would only affect it in a way that is 
positive for me.  Because Iran is saying, look, this 
doesn't have any relevance to the -- to the Iran 
tribunal if we don't ever get the money; and the reality 
is whether Dr. Elahi gets the money or the other 
lienholders get the money, Iran is never going to get 
the money, which says to me it's not at issue under any 
theory of the case in front of the U.S.-Iranian claims 
tribunal.

 And so that would be my quickest answer to 
that; to the extent that you have other lienholders, it 
simply means that there really is nothing at issue 
there.  But it still seems to me that the better way --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Why not?  I mean, the 

question I raised before, why wouldn't the United States 
be urging that it gets credit, whether Iran gets the 
money or whether the people who are creditors of Iran 
get the money.  In either case, the United States should 
be able to have --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Right, the United States 

would still have that -- would still have that argument, 
but it's not a claim against the United States, which is 
what's required under the statute that we are dealing 
with here when it's viewed that way. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But Iran might say in the 

tribunal, in responding to the setoff argument, this 
claim that we brought against you, the United States, 
implicates a breach of obligations that you have that 
are un -- somewhat unrelated to what was at issue in 
the -- in the -- in the Cubic judgment.  And then the 
United States would say, no, that's not true.  So they 
would have to examine the Cubic judgment.  So that means 
it's at issue before the court.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  No, I don't think there is 

anybody whose going to -- well, maybe there is some 
sense in which examining the Cubic judgment, but I don't 
think the tribunal has remotely been asked to or will 
under any circumstances be asked to review the Cubic 
judgment.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  There might be in the 

setoff proceedings.  There might -- there might be an 
argument that there are two obligations, and there is a 
setoff or that there is a setoff.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I mean, I think there 
is no question these are for two different obligations. 
And I think that's why candidly the Court ought to 
decide that this is not property at issue here, because 
it is so clearly unrelated to the weapons system itself 
or to any monetization of the weapons system.  Remember 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the Cubic judgment comes from an arbitral award that 
doesn't have anything to do with that arms sale.  It has 
to do with a completely separate contractual undertaking 
between the Cubic and the Canadian government --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, I think we might get 

--

MR. PHILLIPS:  -- and Iran.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- substantial -- a 

substantial degree of argument on that point.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I don't know how there could 
be an argument on that point, Justice Kennedy.  If you 
read the opinion of the arbitrator, it is absolutely 
clear that the -- that the underlying agreement between 
Iran and Cubic with respect to the arms sale was 
mutually terminated by the parties, and a new agreement 
entered into in order to resell those properties to 
Canada.  The opinion is crystalline in that regard.

 And it was on the basis of the violation of 
that separate agreement that the -- that Cubic was then 
held to be liable to Iran for the $2.8 million.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The agreement 

between who -- between who --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Between Iran and Cubic.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So Iran, I assume, 
would say, look, we entered into this agreement to take 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the place of what was at dispute.  Which is what they 
owed us because they didn't ship us the arms that we 
paid for.  I don't see that that adds anything to your 
argument.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, it just says that you 

move even further down the road from what are the 
properties that are, in fact, at issue before the 
tribunal.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Right, so Iran says, 
look, you are not going to ship us the planes, whatever 
it is, you are not --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Although they wanted that.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You were not going 

to give us the money, right?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  And they still want that.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And we still have a 

dispute.  So, I tell you what, you are going to sell 
this stuff to Canada, you are going to get some money 
from them, and we have got an agreement that that money 
is ours.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Mr. Chief Justice, that --

that -- they may have been able to make that argument. 
That is not an argument they have made.  The argument 
they made, which represents the property at issue in the 
claims, is first, give us back the arms; and then two, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

give us the value of those arms, not as they have been 
reformulated in a completely separate contract, give us 
the value of those arms.  It seems to me the --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, why would 

Cubic enter into a contract with Iran to give them money 
if it wasn't taking the place of the money they owed 
them in the original agreement?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, the question was, they 
were going to try to go forward in these arrangements. 
And it was a, you know, complicated problem because you 
couldn't tell whether or not you would ever be able to 
send things back to Iran, et cetera.  And so, they were 
perfectly happy to enter into an agreement where they 
would say, look, we will just do the best we can and see 
how it turns out.

 I mean, in reality, the litigation in front 
of the Ninth Circuit, obviously, on the Cubic judgment, 
Cubic is screaming loud and clear that they don't think 
they owe a nickel as a consequence of this arrangement 
that there had been no breach of anything under any 
circumstances, and that there is not a penny that's to 
be owed.  And as counsel said earlier, it's in some ways 
unfortunate that this has moved in this sequence.  So, 
we don't really have --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Do you know why it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was pending for ten years?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, it was stayed as a 

consequence of this other litigation -- as a consequence 
of these proceedings in order to allow, I think in 
general the Iran claims tribunal to -- to sort out, at 
least, some portion of these issues.  It would obvious 
be -- I mean, we have moved -- I mean, we are not a 
party.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So the stayed 
because it was at issue before the Iranian claims 
tribunal?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  I mean, the truth is 

just as the issue was a more important issue for the 
United States prior to the new blocking order, you know, 
the questions that could potentially have arisen were 
potentially more important to the claims tribunal at the 
outset.  As the litigation has played out, it turns out 
that there's no relationship between the two.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, the -- the other 

thing -- and I think this counts against you, but maybe 
you have an answer to it, that there could be a lot of 
property that was directly at issue in '79 or '80 that 
Iran didn't get.  And because they didn't get it, all 
kinds of things happened with property, and you get more 
of it or you get less of it.  And during the interim 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

years all kinds of things happened.

 And it could be that those transformations 

at different times are directly before the tribunal, 
irrespective to how much damages you are going to get, 
and how much -- we can easily think of cases if we have 
three or four hours.  But you see where I am going?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Sure.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Now, I can understand 
Congress in passing this statute having one of two 
possible things:  One is say we are just going to cut an 
arbitrary line here because it's a compromise, and what 
we will do is, you can go ahead, victim, and seize 
anything you want, as long as it doesn't narrowly fit 
within this.  That's a somewhat arbitrary line but a 
compromise.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  But it also provides 

protection for victims, right, and those are the people 
who are the most --

JUSTICE BREYER:  The other way to look at it 

is to say, well, what we that had in mind here is we 
will pay these victims something; you know, they are 
going to get something right from Congress right now, 
because they are hurt.  But in return from that, we 
don't want you taking action that will really affect our 
liability to Iran.  And if it's the second, then we 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

needed broader definition; if it's the first, we don't.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  Justice Breyer, I think the 
Hague cases are the place to look in terms of trying to 
understand this, because what it's what -- Hague, that 
line of cases all involve efforts to seize consular 
properties of Iran and all arose prior to the Accords, 
and every one of those courts of appeals has concluded 
that each of those properties is beyond the ability of 
the courts to attach all of those properties.

 And -- and it seems to me that what Congress 

was concerned about was having inconsistent claims 
potentially arise in both the district -- in federal 
court in the United States and in front of the claims 
tribunal.

 So where you have a situation where the 

claims tribunal says, look, that's a consular property 
that belongs to the Iranian government, you should 
return it, and have the United States have to show up in 
front of that tribunal and say, oh, excuse me, but 
unfortunately, we have been forced to sell that property 
under a federal court order and the embarrassment that 
arises from that.  That seems to me so clearly what 
Congress had in mind, or at least is clearly covered by 
this and the case law or all the case law up to this 
point that has dealt with it has consistently ruled in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

favor of the United States and Iran in that context. 
But there is no reason to go beyond that context in 
order to deprive the clear victims of terrorism of a 
meaningful remedy.

 And I think, Justice Breyer, just to be 
clear about this, we got money back, to be sure.  A 
substantial portion of the money we got back came from 
the values of the properties that the United States 
seized from Iran that they've used, they have leased out 
embassies and stuff like that.  And that is not property 
that comes out of the United States' fist.

 So it's not reasonable to assume, as the 

government does, that simply because these moneys were 
paid out, that there is some huge relinquishment that is 
required there.  It seems to me that it makes much more 
sense for this Court to narrowly construe this.

 I guess the last thing I would say in that 
regard is, that insofar as we can tell, this case will 
affect one party -- actually, I guess the other two 
lienholders behind us.  But realistically, there are no 
cases in the pipeline.  There is no other litigation 
that is on going out there.  This is a singular -- I 
mean, it's kind of unusual for this Court, but this is 
the only case that we can figure that this applies to.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but the point 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

is, depending on how it comes out, once you give a 
argument to the Iranians that they can raise with the 
claims tribunal that will affect far more than your one 
single case.  We -- the argument would be the United 
States is not living up to the obligations it undertook 
in the Algiers Accords.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  And, 

Mr. Chief Justice, that -- I understand why the 
government filed in support of Certiorari at the earlier 
stages of this proceeding.  But after the intervening 
blocking order that takes the -- I mean, that issue is 
off the table.

 We are no longer defending the Ninth 

Circuit's view that the United States breached the 
original Algiers Accords in the context of this case. 
Nothing in the blocking order that is in place now and 
would prevent Iran from getting this remotely violates 
the Algiers Accords.  And as far as I know, no one is 
making that argument at this stage.  So all you have is 
a relatively clean -- issues.  Does the blocking order 
apply here in stopping the payment of these funds to 
Iran?  There the answer seems to me unquestionably yes.

 And then the second question is, do we adopt 
a rule to the detriment to a single terrorist victim in 
a way that deprives him of an opportunity to get back 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

fair redress in the absence of some clear indication 
from Congress that it intended that result where it 
would affect no one else and where Congress has said 
specifically in a rule of construction, put your thumb 
on the scale in favor of the victim of terrorism? 
That's what we are asking the Court to do in this case. 
It provides no problems to the United States in its 
claims tribunal litigation.  It's only an issue of 
money.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What provision --
can you cite me the provision where the Congress said 
put your thumb on the scale?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes.  It's 201(d)(4), the 

Petitioner's brief at 11a.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  11a.  And how does 

that -- the title of the section says statutory 
construction.  I just don't see what follows as 
statutory construction.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I think what you have 
to do is give the language some credit.  And our way --
what we think Congress intended there was to say, tip 
the scale in favor of the victims of terrorism, which is 
the underlying purpose of the statute.

 I will confess, the language is not nearly 

as clear as I would like it to be, but I will also 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

recognize that the -- the Government of Iran's position 
renders that language as total dead letter --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You don't see any --
MR. PHILLIPS:  -- alternative it seems to me 

you ought to give it -- again, give the tie to the 
victims under this --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You don't see any 

problem with Congress telling us how to conduct 
statutory construction?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  No, I think Congress does --

is entitled to suggest, if it's -- if you have ambiguity 
in our language, which way to come out as a matter of 
policy.  No, I don't think that's -- no, I don't think 
that's dictating -- that's certainly not dictating a 
result in this particular case.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Phillips, one piece 
of -- I don't -- you have agreed that the United States 
could recoup from Iran the amount paid to the victims, 
including Dariush Elahi, including the 2.3 million.  How 
would the United States go about recouping from Iran the 
money it has paid to the victims of Iran's terrorism?
 MR. PHILLIPS:  You mean in the situations 

where the United States has subrogate -- right to 
subrogation?

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes.  How would that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

work?  How would -- how would the United States --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I think it would almost 

certainly work as a matter of diplomacy and not as a 
matter of adjudicated resolution.  I think what they 
will say is, these are rights, these are amounts of 
money that we have had to pay.  And if we are ever to 
normalize relations with the Government of Iran, we are 
going to expect the Government of Iran to recognize 
those payments and to make some kind of retribution to 
the United States under those circumstances.

 And again, all it does is it shifts the 

burden of these injuries from the victims, who are in 
the least best position to deal with them, and put them 
in the United States, which is in a position of at least 
some hope of being able to resolve them diplomatically 
in a way that the United States can, in fact, be 
recompensed.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You said this is a one of 

a kind case.  Are there no other victims who have 
successfully sued Iran?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  There are, but the problem is 
you have to back into the situation of property that is 
at issue in the claims tribunal.  The claims tribunal 
was created in '81.  It's not a lot of that property 
around.  We're talking 25 years later.  So, they have 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

pretty much played out their course.

 There were the Hague noted cases, and the 

Elahi case.  The others are going to be resolved without 
regard to these provisions.  And so, the reality is what 
the Court says today will affect my client, but as far 
as I can tell no one else.  And certainly, the only 
interest the United States has at this stage in this 
litigation is its own financial interest.  And it would 
seem to me, that's not a basis on which to interpret the 
statute.

 If there are no further questions, I urge 

the Court to affirm.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Phillips.

 Mr. Bederman, you have two minutes left.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MR. DAVID J. BEDERMAN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. BEDERMAN:  If I can make just a few 

points.  In response to Respondent counsel's assertion 
that in the International Chamber of Commerce arbitral 
award there's been so form of novation here, which makes 
the connection between the ACMR and the Cubic judgment 
somehow attenuated.  I think that's -- by the 
tribunal's -- the panel's discussion, this is at the 
joint appendix at page 47. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The panel makes very clear that under the 
sales contract credit has to be given to Iran for its 
advance payment.  Here you have a breakout of the 
salvage value of the ACMR.  All that the panel was 
indicating was that Iran was not entitled to specific 
performance here, to make that ruling is not a finding 
of a novation in the sense which would respond to 
counsel using that phrase.  So, I don't see the 
attenuation here.

 Speaking to the assertion that, again, the 

enormous risk presented by this case of the broad 
construction of the congressional intent, I think if you 
look carefully at the language at the blue brief at 11a 
of the statutory construction provision -- that was part 
of the colloquy between the Chief Justice and 
Respondent's counsel.  And if you read this, it 
completely reserves, if not begs the question of whether 
the Cubic judgment is, quote, an asset otherwise 
available under the section for attachment.

 So, I think it completely doesn't answer, 

one way or the other -- a finger on the scale, as 
Respondent's counsel has evocably said, or some form of 
command by Congress to this Court.  It simply reserves 
that question for the Court's analysis.

 In response to Justice Ginsburg's last 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

question to Respondent's counsel, the one thing I would 
point out to you again, is another clue in the statute. 
If we look at the Victims Protection Act, which was the 
predecessor statute here, section 2002(c), what Congress 
wanted to protect is the right of the United States to, 
quote, pursue these subrogated rights as claims or 
offsets of the United States in appropriate ways.

 So, again, Congress has contemplated the 
notion that there will be a process of setoffs either 
before the Iran U.S. claims tribunal or in some other 
context, which I'm not sure I can imagine beyond what 
response counsel has said.  So, to suggest that the 
broad remedial thrust of TRIA, which Petitioner is not 
denying -- it's not our place to deny that -- is 
nonetheless tempered by these carefully crafted 
provisions in the statute.

 We would support, obviously, reversal of the 

lower court's opinion.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 12:09 p.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

ability 48:8 
able 12:22 41:20 

44:22 45:11 
53:15 

above-entitled 

1:14 56:22 
absence 51:1 
absent 17:8 
absolutely 33:17 

39:11 43:12 
accept 35:5,18 
accords 6:17 7:1 

10:6,18 12:8 
12:13 15:17,21 
16:24 22:24 
27:20 31:17 
48:6 50:6,15 
50:18 

account 4:7,9 

5:2 10:14 
21:20,22 22:5 
35:12 36:6,10 
39:10 

accounts 5:10 
accruing 10:8 
achieve 4:15 
ACMR 31:11,13 

31:21 34:20 
39:21,22 40:6 
40:9,12,13,19 
54:22 55:4 

Act 3:15 25:18 

56:3 

action 17:10 

47:24 

actual 26:24 
add 36:23 
addition 11:22 
adds 44:3 
adjudicated 

53:4 

adjudicating 

28:22 

adjustment 17:9 
adopt 37:24 

50:23 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

analytic 15:15 

adopted 38:25 
advance 55:3 
affect 24:13 41:2  answer 41:11 
46:21 50:22 
55:20 

47:24 49:19 
50:3 51:3 54:5 

16:6 

8:13 13:6

43:11 44:4,22 
44:23,23 50:2 
50:4,19 54:16  Atlanta 1:18
attach 3:23

assumption 8:6

arguments 

28:23 

ahead 47:12 
air 14:25 15:25  APPEARAN... 

33:10 

1:17 

Algiers 6:17 7:1  appellate 8:14 
appendix 18:10 

affirm 54:12 
ago 18:21 
agree 4:11 20:7 

24:17 36:21 

agreed 4:7 52:17 
agreement 

34:22,25 43:13 
43:15,19,21,25 
44:19 45:7,13 

10:6,18 12:8 
12:13 15:17,21 
16:24 22:24 
27:19 31:17 
50:6,15,18 

aliases 13:18,23 
allow 9:2 11:14 

16:19 21:11 
46:4 

allowing 9:3 

alluded 29:13 

12:9 

31:14 

21:21 24:11
25:8 35:18
36:13 40:5,8
40:17,18,20
48:9

arisen 46:15 
arises 7:2 48:22 

answers 34:12 
anybody 42:11 
appeal 3:12 8:10  arising 17:15 
10:22,23 11:16  Armed 1:4 3:5 
12:2 

13:13,15 

appeals 11:1 

22:23 23:9,20 
23:23 24:12,14  arose 48:6 
24:24 48:7 
appear 22:19 

45:19 

arrangement 

arms 43:2,14 

attached 18:18
attachee 19:19
44:2,25 45:1,3  attacher 19:17
attaches 20:5
attaching 12:18
20:1 21:2 38:9 
39:13

arrangements 

32:10 45:9 
Article 16:25 
articulate 16:2 
aside 32:20 
asked 28:10 

34:15 42:13,14 

asking 40:23 

51:6 

27:8 29:9 
54:25 

applies 49:24 
apply 37:21 

50:21 

11:17 

aspects 5:11 

approach 8:24 
appropriate 
assert 10:13 
13:6 14:20 
asserted 27:18 
15:3,19 17:11 
18:8 31:7 56:7  asserting 29:22 
assertion 28:25 

appropriately 

14:16 

54:19 55:10 

attachment 9:2

20:12,15 21:11 
24:20 27:3
55:19

attachments

14:5 18:24,24
20:22

attenuated 22:3

22:7 54:23

attenuation 55:9
attributable

5:11

attribute 22:4
at-issue 4:21

14:12

alternative 52:4  arbitral 11:11 
ambiguity 52:11 
11:18 34:25 
amended 13:4 
43:1 54:20 

25:13 

amendment 

arbitrary 47:11 

47:14 

assertions 28:19  authority 14:19
asset 14:20 23:7 

30:4

25:4,11 28:1,2  availability 9:16
29:1 34:15 
55:18 

17:2

available 9:4
15:8 21:10
55:19

34:14,14,16,23 
arbitrator 34:16 

arbitration 34:8  assets 15:13,13 
16:3,21 22:24 
24:11,15 25:10  avoidance 17:12
25:21,24 26:1 
26:24 28:15 
33:15,15,23,25  award 4:19,23

avoiding 17:6
await 10:3

amicus 1:22 2:6 

7:15 

22:16 

amount 4:3 6:11 

27:8 29:19 
38:11 52:18 
amounts 4:8 
5:10 53:5 
ample 8:2 
analysis 16:7 

55:24 

34:19 43:12 
argument 1:15 
2:2,10 3:4,8 
15:11 22:14 
26:10,21,22 
32:2,19 36:24 
37:10,11 41:22 
42:2,18 43:9 

Assistant 1:20 
assume 8:17,18 

12:21 43:24 
49:12 

assuming 8:4,4 

6:7 10:4 11:11 
11:18 30:9,13
30:16,22 34:8 
34:14,14,16,18
34:24,25 43:1 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

38:13,15,16,19 
39:4,15,16,21 
40:5,8,14,24 
46:19 47:8,19 
48:2 49:5 

brief 3:16 6:5,6 

27:16 32:23 
33:9 51:14 
55:13 

briefs 26:11 
bring 39:24 
broad 28:25 
55:11 56:13 
broader 4:21 
15:12 48:1 
broadly 27:1 

brought 40:13 

32:9 

42:3 

54:21 

awarded 27:8 
awards 3:20 4:1 
aware 13:21 

14:9 

a.m 1:16 3:2 
A/15 31:14 

B 

back 10:9 13:8 

believe 10:4 
21:8 24:20 
26:19 27:13 
28:17 29:6 
believes 19:6 
belongs 48:17 
beneficial 14:24 

benefit 10:5 

14:25 

32:13 

53:13 

better 41:14 
beyond 32:10 

benefits 10:8 
best 33:4 45:14 

15:4 24:2 
32:22 34:3 
38:6,9 44:25 
45:12 49:6,7 
50:25 53:22 
balance 22:10 
48:8 49:2 
bank 4:7,9 5:2 
56:11 
5:10 21:20,21 
bill 9:24 
22:4 35:12 
bit 11:9 22:7 
36:6,9 39:10 
blanketed 5:19 
based 10:4 18:9  blocked 14:20 
bases 11:20 
23:8 24:15,19 
basic 32:20 
25:4,12,21 
basis 15:11 23:9 
35:9 

builds 28:13 
burden 53:12 
buys 35:13 
B/61 3:24 6:8 
7:12 15:25 
29:11 33:8 
13:14 25:13,23  B/66 15:23 
46:14 50:11,16 
50:20 

blocking 12:24 

blue 3:16 55:13 
boils 17:21 
bought 21:19 

34:4 

breach 10:6,17 
12:7,12 34:24 
42:4 45:20 

breached 50:14 
breakout 55:3 
Brewster 11:23 
Breyer 18:17,20 
18:22 19:5,10 
19:16,19,25 
20:3,8,10,16 
20:20,25 21:14 
21:25 22:1,6 
28:10 35:6,15 
35:21 36:17,23 
37:13,17 38:7 

C
C 2:1 3:1 
calculating

10:15

California 16:11
Canada 27:23

28:5,5,12 40:9 
43:17 44:18

Canadian 34:18

43:4

Canadians

33:20

candidly 42:22
carefully 6:24
55:13 56:15
CARTER 1:24

2:8 32:2

case 3:4,24 6:7 
7:10,12 9:22 
10:7 11:7 13:3 

32:20 34:23 
43:18 54:9 

bear 9:8 
Bederman 1:18 
2:3,11 3:7,8,10 
4:11 5:4 6:2 
7:7,11,22 8:1,9 
8:17,21 9:12 
10:3,24 11:4 
12:25 14:3,7 
15:8,14 16:4 
17:20,23 18:1 
18:20 19:2,9 
19:15,18,20 
20:2,7,9,13,18 
20:24 21:4,24 
22:1,9,12 
54:15,16,18 

begs 55:17 
behalf 1:18,22 

1:24 2:4,6,9,12 
3:9 22:15 32:3 
54:17 

13:20 15:23,25 
45:4,25 46:9 
17:19 18:17,23 
49:25 50:8 
22:7 29:7,11 
51:10,15 52:3 
31:7 36:7 
52:7 54:13 
39:23 41:9,19 
55:15 56:19 
48:24,24 49:18  Circuit 8:11 
49:24 50:4,15 
51:6 52:15 
53:19 54:3 
55:11 56:20,21  Circuit's 13:4 

10:23 13:19,21 
16:12 24:2 
45:17 

cases 7:18,19,23 

10:19 12:4 
14:8 17:5 20:4 
47:5 48:3,5 
49:21 54:2 
causes 17:10 
central 25:1 
certain 10:8 
17:14 38:24 
certainly 7:15 

7:22 8:1 12:15 
16:9 22:9 
23:21 24:6 
40:1 52:14 
53:3 54:6 

Certiorari 50:9 
cetera 45:12 
challenging 

Chamber 11:11 

11:17 

54:20 

character 4:20 
characterizes 

characterizing 

29:8 

19:3 

check 21:18,19 
Chief 3:3,10 4:6 
4:12,24 13:20 
15:10 16:1 
22:11,17 23:24 
24:7 25:16 
26:3 28:9,24 
31:23 32:4 
33:14,18 34:6 
43:21,24 44:9 
44:13,16,21 

circumstance 

50:14 

30:12 

circumstances 
12:20 21:11 
38:6 39:2 
42:14 45:21 
53:10 

cite 51:11 
cited 39:19 
claim 4:2,10 5:7 
7:4 9:15 10:13 
13:8 14:25 
15:1 16:16 
23:14 26:20 
27:18,24 28:3 
28:6 29:17,18
29:19 33:16,24
38:5 39:11 
41:23 42:3 

claimants 14:1 
claims 3:19,25

4:17,18 5:6,12 
5:15 6:25 7:1 
7:20,24 16:24 
22:22 28:15 
32:25 33:7 
35:3 37:4 41:9 
44:25 46:5,10
46:16 48:11,13
48:16 50:3 
51:8 53:23,23
56:6,10

clarification 

10:21 

clean 50:20 
clear 4:13 5:5 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

6:5 9:6 15:9 
43:13 45:18 
49:3,6 51:1,25 
55:1 

clearly 5:14 

30:12 32:13 
33:15 36:20 
42:24 48:22,23 

client 54:5 
clue 56:2 
collateral 17:7 
collect 19:13 
collects 26:18 
colloquy 55:15 
collude 16:21 
combat 33:10 
come 10:9 25:20 

52:12 

comes 7:15 43:1 

49:11 50:1 

command 55:23 
Commerce 

11:11 54:20 
commission 

38:17 39:7,12 

compensate 
36:25 37:2 

compensatory 

38:22 

complete 26:19 
completely 

32:19 38:23 
43:3 45:2 
55:17,20 

complicated 

45:10 

compromise 

47:11,15 

Computer 17:5 
conceive 30:8,9 
concern 22:2,3 

39:7 

concerned 48:11 
concluded 48:7 
conclusion 5:20 
concrete 39:8 
concur 22:9 

court's 11:10,17  Cubic's 11:9,16 
curiae 1:23 2:7 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

condo 22:5 
conduct 52:8 
confess 51:24 
Congress 4:14 

contractual 6:19 

18:11 

43:3 

contrary 22:25 
convention 

11:18 

8:22 21:8 
32:13 37:20 
38:25 47:9,22 
48:10,23 51:2  Corning 17:5 
51:3,11,21 
52:8,10 55:23 
56:4,8 

core 25:1 

22:2 

correct 20:9,18 

16:23 55:24 
56:18 

cover 13:17 

16:21 

covered 13:23 
14:23 48:23 
covers 13:14 
crafted 56:15 
created 53:24 
creates 38:7 

correctly 25:3 
correspondence  credit 9:25 16:6 

6:9 

26:5 41:17 
51:20 55:2 

Council 13:20 
counsel 31:14,23  credited 10:10 
10:14 12:19 

22:16 

cut 28:11 47:10 

D

D 3:1 
damages 47:4 
Dariush 1:9

52:19

DAVID 1:18 2:3 
2:11 3:8 54:16 

dead 52:2 
deal 53:13 
dealing 31:4

41:24

deals 6:18 
dealt 48:25
decide 14:19
16:3 39:5,7
42:23 

decides 32:8 
decision 23:20 

24:6,11 

declaration 7:1

16:25

deducted 19:13 
defeats 29:17 
defending 50:13 
defends 23:8 
defense 1:3 3:4 
4:5 6:20 9:15 
10:13 11:6,6
11:21 13:12,15
14:14 16:16
19:24 22:8,20
24:23,25 26:20 
defenses 5:12,15

14:15 15:1 
define 28:20
definition 48:1 
degree 43:9 
delivering 19:11 
demand 7:13 

8:3 

demanded 4:1 
demonstrated

congressional 

8:25 55:12 
connection 

54:22 

consequence 

25:17,20 33:3 
45:19 46:3,3 
consider 29:6 
consideration 

consistent 37:3 

15:19 

37:24 

48:25 

consistently 

consists 33:9 
constituent 25:1 
constitutes 7:3 

29:10 

construction 
3:13 37:19 
51:4,17,18 
52:9 55:12,14 
construe 49:16 
consular 48:5,16 
contemplated 

7:19 56:8 

context 26:16 
49:1,2 50:15 
56:11 

contract 7:3 

17:8,16 34:17 
34:20 35:10 
40:4 45:2,5 
55:2 

45:22 55:8,16 
55:22 56:1,12 
56:19 

counsel's 54:19 
counterclaim 

7:5,9,12 11:19 
29:12,14,15 
counterclaims 

6:25 7:2 

counts 46:20 
course 6:14,18 
8:9 9:12 13:3 
19:21 25:13 
26:21 28:2 
36:10 54:1 
court 1:1,15 

3:11 5:17 11:7 
11:15,22,24 
13:5,6,9,11 
14:13,16,18,19 
15:16 16:11 
18:5 22:18,23 
23:9,11,19,20 
23:21,22 24:6 
24:11,14,24,25 
27:4,5,13 29:6 
32:5,8 42:9,22 
48:13,21 49:16 
49:23 51:6 
54:5,12 55:23 

creditor 9:22,22 

10:1,12 

creditors 41:18 
critical 22:20 

29:16 

criticism 16:18 
cross 10:25 
crystalline 

43:17 

Cubic 3:22,24 
4:3,4 5:6,23 
6:11,18,20 8:7 
8:8,10,13,15 
8:20 9:3,21,25 
10:22 11:5 
12:1,18,22 
15:24 16:10,22 
18:11,12 19:8 
20:14 21:16,16 
21:18 26:11 
27:22 28:8,12 
28:13 29:9 
30:4,7,11,13 
31:22 33:18 
34:8,17 35:8 
39:23,25 40:2 
40:3,9 42:6,8 
42:12,14 43:1 
43:4,14,19,23 
45:5,17,18 
54:22 55:18 

contractor 6:21 
contracts 15:24 

courts 28:21 

48:7,9 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

espousing 5:17 
ESQ 1:18,20,24 

2:3,5,8,11 

40:25 44:7 
53:16 

factual 13:11,19 

essential 23:10 
essentially 11:16  failure 12:8 

13:22 

fair 51:1 
far 9:9 14:9 35:2 

50:3,18 54:5 
favor 10:7 15:7 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

32:7 

denied 26:2 
deny 56:14 
denying 56:14 
Department 

4:20 

Elahi 1:9 3:6 

11:8,14 13:6 

disposed 11:13 
disposition 6:19 

9:22 10:2 
12:17 14:10 
20:16,21,23 
21:20 25:5,6,7 
35:17 36:13 
38:3 41:6 
dissent 16:7 
52:19 54:3 
dissipated 28:2  Elahi's 20:15 
district 11:10,17  electing 3:16 
election 14:10 
embargo 19:11 
embarrassment 

dispute 27:15,17 
33:11 44:1,17 
depending 30:2  disputing 35:4 

1:21 

50:1 

deprive 49:3 
deprives 50:25 
derived 17:7 
described 33:6,6 
designated 
24:22 25:2 

11:22,24 13:9 
13:11 14:16 
16:11 48:12 
dollars 35:10 
designation 13:1  double 17:7 

48:21 

embassies 49:10  examining 

13:12 14:23 
24:18 

designations 

13:17,24 

double-recove...  emphasize 

17:13 

doubts 37:20 
DOUGLAS 

emphasized 

23:10 

23:21 

encompassing 

execute 12:22 

54:8 

6:24 

ends 20:25 39:3 
enforcement 

3:18 11:10,17 
32:24 

enormous 32:8 

55:11 

enter 45:5,13 
entered 34:22 

43:16,25 

entire 32:13 

entirely 8:12 

37:15 

29:18 

designed 32:15 
1:20 2:5 22:14 
determination  Dr 14:10 20:15 

15:23 

20:16 25:5 
determine 7:21 
38:3 41:6 
determined 31:8  drafting 9:9 
detriment 50:24  D.C 1:11,22,24 
development 

13:19,21 

dictating 52:14 

13:3 

52:14 

different 17:10 

34:7 36:1 
42:21 47:3 

diplomacy 53:3 
diplomatic 

diplomatically 

18:14 

53:15 

directly 22:25 

46:22 47:3 
disadvantage 

disagreement 

32:12 

21:7 

discharge 31:7 
discussed 32:18 
discussion 54:24 
disjunctive 4:16 

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 7:24 26:9 

31:15 45:22
50:9

earth 39:3
easily 32:10
36:14 47:5

easy 30:9 36:8 
economic 34:4

39:22

effect 9:7,20

14:6

effective 19:22 
effort 39:24 
efforts 48:5 
either 21:20 

22:6,7 34:3,3 
35:7 36:22 
41:19 56:9 

23:16 

entities 13:18,18 
entitled 5:10 

extend 39:3 
26:18,23 31:20  extent 11:19 
15:12 41:12 
31:21 38:4 
52:11 55:5 
entity 14:23 

F

25:2 

equally 9:25 
equipment 34:4 
equivalent 34:9 
erroneous 23:13 
23:23 24:13,14 
escrow 33:20,24 

facility 28:13
fact 8:7 11:5 
12:11 14:24
19:7 21:15
23:8,22 25:20 
26:19 28:18
29:13 32:7

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

15:22 16:7 
39:2 

et 45:12 
event 15:7 
Evidently 8:24 
evocably 55:22 
examination 

5:14 

examine 42:8 

10:17 42:12 

exchanges 18:14 
excuse 27:21 

48:19 

14:2 

30:3 

executed 18:25 

execution 25:25 
exercise 37:15 
exercising 14:19 
expansive 16:18 
expect 53:8 
explain 9:19 

40:23 

explicated 12:11 
export 12:9 

31:17 

expressing 

21:17 37:22 
49:1 51:5,22 
federal 16:11 

48:12,21 

figure 49:24 
file 7:12 29:14 
filed 28:3 50:9 
filings 18:14 
finally 11:8 
financial 12:6 

find 5:20 10:7 
finding 10:6 

55:6 

finds 8:16 
finger 55:21 
first 7:8 32:18 
34:13 37:12 
39:24 44:25 
48:1 

Fisher's 16:7 
fist 49:11 
fit 47:13 
focus 33:1 
follows 51:17 
Force 14:25 

15:25 

forced 48:20 
Forces 1:5 3:5 

13:13,15

forever 26:2 
form 54:21 

55:22 

formal 7:12 
forward 11:22 

found 12:7,12

45:9 

27:10 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

goes 38:8,9 
going 7:17 8:15 

hear 3:3 7:7 
heart 3:12 
held 43:20 
help 23:25,25 
helpful 23:20 

24:3 

15:4 24:2 
25:19,20 31:1 
31:3 38:2,6 
41:7 42:11 
44:10,13,17,18  hold 30:5 
45:9 47:4,6,10  holding 22:22 
23:2,9,11,13 
47:22 49:22 
23:23 24:14 
53:8 54:3 
good 3:10 
government 
25:22 26:8,9 
29:5 30:20 
34:18 43:4 
31:11,25 
48:17 49:13 
50:9 52:1 53:7  hope 53:15 
hours 47:6 
53:8 
house 21:19,22 
huge 49:14 
hurt 25:19 47:23 
hypothesizing 

Honor 18:1 23:6 

government's 

governments 

33:9 

6:10 

four 47:6 
frankly 35:7 
front 33:3 41:9 
45:16 48:13,19 

frozen 25:14 
frustrate 21:12 
fundamentally 

32:12 

funds 3:14,17 

21:9 30:5 
33:24 50:21 
further 24:21 
35:22 44:6 
54:11 

Futura 17:5 

G 

G 1:24 2:8 3:1 

32:2 

Ga 1:18 
gather 39:16 
general 1:21 
16:2 46:5 

getting 19:17 

granted 9:17 

17:3 

Ginsburg 5:22 

50:17 

gray 6:5,6 
grocery 21:22 
35:13,21 36:3 
36:6,9 39:10 
6:14 7:5,9 9:19  ground 35:18 
10:20,25 12:4 
12:21 13:25 
14:4,8 23:4,15 
25:3,9 26:4,13 
29:13 41:15 
52:16,25 53:18 

49:17,19 
H 

48:3,4 54:2 

guess 28:9 30:19 

Hague 3:25 5:23 

Ginsburg's 

55:25 

give 34:3,3,4 

37:23 44:14,25 
45:1,2,5 50:1 
51:20 52:5,5 

given 12:24 
37:25 55:2 

gives 29:3 
go 9:9 24:2 

28:12 32:22 
45:9 47:12 
49:2 52:20 

goal 37:1 

Hallward-Dri... 
1:20 2:5 22:13 
22:14,17 23:6 
23:18 24:5,9 
25:6,10,22 
26:7,15 28:17 
29:5 30:6,19 
30:25 31:10,20 
31:24 

hand 31:13 
happened 35:15 

46:24 47:1 

happens 35:16 
happy 45:13 

17:4 

I 

ICC 11:11,18 
identical 36:7 
identified 9:14 

16:9,13,15 
18:11,15 

imagine 35:8 

56:11 

imagining 15:16 
immediately 

immunity 5:19 
implicated 4:13 

23:1 

5:12 

implicates 42:4 
implications 
10:17 12:6 
import 4:13 
important 46:13 

46:16 

improper 10:11 
inasmuch 15:20 
inchoate 5:18 
include 7:2 
includes 4:21 

including 35:17 

52:19,19 

inconsistent 

48:11 

independent 

23:7 

indicate 4:21 

6:15 10:8 
23:11 

indicated 4:22 
6:4 16:8 17:4 
23:1 

indicating 55:5 
indication 51:1 
individuals 

18:18 20:19 
injuries 53:12 
inoperative 

24:13 

inquiries 13:22 
insofar 18:24 

49:18 

instance 10:13 

12:11,17 
instrument 

15:22 

Insurance 3:15 
integral 29:10 
intended 21:9 
32:13 51:2,21 
intensely 13:22 
intensity 13:19 
intent 8:25 

55:12 

interest 15:16 
39:9 54:7,8 
interests 9:10 
22:21 37:3 
interim 46:25 
international 

3:19 4:18 5:25 
11:10 54:20 
interpret 6:15 

32:9 54:9 
interpreting 

15:20 

intervening 

50:10 

involve 48:5 
Iran 1:6 3:6 4:1 
4:25 5:5 6:7,17 
9:20,22,24 
10:1,7,9,12 
12:22 13:16 
15:6,7 16:19 
19:1,6,21 20:6 
20:6,25 21:15 
21:16,17 22:8 
22:20,22 23:1 
24:23,25 25:5 
25:12 26:24 
27:9,10,18 
28:3 29:1,3,7 
29:16 30:3,10 
30:11,12 31:13 
31:18,19 32:11 
33:6 34:10,20 
35:11,12,12,19
35:22 36:11 
38:2,6,9,11
39:11 40:13,17 
41:3,4,7,17,18
42:1 43:7,14 
43:20,23,24
44:9 45:5,12 
46:5,23 47:25 
48:6 49:1,9 
50:17,22 52:18 
52:20 53:7,8 
53:20 55:2,5 
56:10 

Iranian 12:9,10
12:16 15:24 
21:20 22:24 
25:1 41:9 
46:10 48:17 
Iranians 33:22 

33:23 34:2 
50:2 

Iranian-Amer... 

37:4 

Iran's 4:5 6:20 
9:23 10:1,12 
10:14 11:6,21 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

14:14,25 18:23 
19:23 20:21 
23:14 26:20,22 
27:7,11,24

28:6 29:17,18 
29:19,24 33:16 
52:1,21


job 23:24,25 
joinder 21:6 
joint 18:10 33:8 

54:25 

Judge 11:23 

16:7 

Islamic 1:5 3:5 

issue 3:18 4:9,15 

Iran-United 

Iran-U.S 7:20 
irrespective 

3:25 

47:4 

13:15 

judgment 3:23 
3:24 4:3,4 5:1 
5:7,24 6:11,18 
8:7,7,8,10,13 
8:16,20 9:3,21 
9:25 10:22 
11:2,7,21 12:1 
12:18,23 15:7 
16:10,23 18:12 
18:19 19:7,7 
19:12 20:14,21 
20:23 21:17,17 
24:1 26:11 
28:7,8 29:9 
30:3,5,11,13 
31:3,4,5,6,7,14 
31:22,22 38:21 
38:22,23 39:24 
39:25 40:3,9,9 
40:16,19 42:6 
42:8,12,15 
43:1 45:17 
54:22 55:18 

4:17 6:16 8:5 
8:20 9:18 11:9 
12:25 13:17 
15:5,5,13,24

15:25 16:3,19 
17:17,18,18

20:3,4,7 21:4,5 
21:6,8,13 23:5 
23:17 25:10 
27:2,12 28:15 
28:20 29:2,2 
30:16,21 31:6

31:11,17 32:25 
33:7,9,16,25

35:3 36:3,4,10  June 10:23 
37:6 38:7 
39:20,21,23 
40:11,15,16

41:8,13 42:5,9 
42:23 44:7,24 
46:10,13,13,22 
50:11 51:8 
53:23 

jurisdiction 5:8 
5:15 6:24 9:16 
15:17,21 16:16 
16:23 17:15 
18:8 19:23 
33:12 40:1,2,2 
jurisprudence 

7:24 10:16 
19:23 

issues 11:13 

13:11 39:6,7 
46:6 50:20 

J 

J 1:18 2:3,11 3:8 

54:16 

January 1:12 
jets 35:8 

Justice 1:21 3:3 
3:10 4:6,12,24 
5:22 6:14 7:5,9 
7:17,25 8:4,5 
8:12,19,21 9:5 
9:19 10:20,25 
12:4,21 13:20 
13:25 14:4,8 

15:4,10 16:1 
17:17,21,25 
18:17,20,22 
19:5,10,16,19 
19:25 20:3,8 
20:10,16,20,25 
21:14,25 22:1 
22:6,11,17 
23:4,15,24 
24:7 25:3,9,16 
26:3,4,13 28:9 
28:10,24 29:13 
30:1,15,23 
31:1,19,23 
32:4 33:14,18 
34:6 35:6,15 
35:21 36:17,23 
37:13,17 38:7 
38:13,15,16,19 
39:4,15,16,21 
40:5,8,14,24 
41:15 42:1,16 
43:5,8,11,21 
43:24 44:9,13 
44:16,21 45:4 
45:25 46:9,19

47:8,19 48:2 
49:5,25 50:8

51:10,15 52:3 
52:7,16,25 
53:18 54:13 
55:15,25 56:19


K 
keep 33:20 
Kennedy 7:17 
7:25 8:5 15:4 
30:1,15 42:1 
42:16 43:5,8 
43:11 

key 5:8 16:17 
kind 28:24 
32:10 37:6 
49:23 53:9,19 
kinds 46:24 47:1 
know 28:13 30:6 

30:15 43:10 

45:10,25 46:14 
47:21 50:18 

knowable 39:4,5 

L

language 4:14
6:2,9 18:14 
26:9,25 28:18 
32:9,22 33:3 
51:20,24 52:2 
52:12 55:13

late 13:2
Laughter 36:19
law 48:24,24
leased 49:9
leave 18:4
leaving 36:13
left 54:15
legal 29:4
legally 23:12,23
legitimate 21:6
letter 52:2
let's 12:21 27:21 

liability 26:24

35:8

47:25

liable 43:20 
license 31:17
lien 4:4 10:13 
lienholders 38:1 

41:1,7,12 
49:20 

lienor 12:17 
lienors 13:10 

14:3,4 

14:15 

limited 38:21 
limiting 5:9 

16:17 

line 38:1 41:1 

47:11,14 48:5 

lined 20:19 
litigation 9:1 
21:12 27:1 
45:16 46:3,17 
49:21 51:8 

54:8 

living 50:5 
located 5:18

lodgment 6:7 

18:11 

logic 33:5

logically 11:12 
Logistics 13:13 
long 11:12 28:25 

47:13 

longer 23:8,12
23:23 50:13 

look 8:8 33:5,21 

39:6 41:3 
43:25 44:10 
45:14 47:19 
48:3,16 55:13 
56:3


looking 8:24,25
lose 38:23

loss 31:21,21
lot 46:21 53:24 
loud 45:18 
lower 27:5 56:18 

M
main 15:4 
making 8:3

14:17 50:19 
maneuvering

Manhattan

33:10

21:19

manner 11:24
materials 18:9 

4:24 7:4 8:23 
11:8 12:2
52:12 53:3,4
56:22

matters 5:25 
6:23 26:14
ma'am 10:24 
mean 9:5 12:25 

15:14 17:20 
23:22 25:24
26:1 28:10,15

liens 11:14 14:6  matter 1:14 3:12 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

30:20 31:5 
33:23 41:15 
42:20 45:16 
46:7,7,12 
49:23 50:11 
52:22 

meaning 37:23 
meaningful 49:4 
means 17:17,18 

35:12,18,19,23  nickel 45:19 
35:24 36:4,5,5  Ninth 8:10 
36:5,9 38:5,8 
10:22 13:4 
38:10,10 39:13 
16:12 24:2 
41:5,6,7,8,18 
45:17 50:13 
41:19 44:14,18  normalize 53:7 
44:19 45:5,6 
49:6,7 51:9 
52:21 53:6 
moneys 49:13 
months 13:4 
moot 23:5 24:1 

note 6:5 
noted 54:2 
notice 4:15 7:14 
noting 16:22 
notion 17:13 
33:1 56:9 

21:13 25:4 
30:23 31:6 
41:13 42:8 
memorial 6:3 
mentioned 8:6  morning 3:11 
move 11:8 44:6 
moved 45:23 

10:21 13:25 
14:1 

24:1,8 

notwithstandi... 

novation 54:21 

14:21 

55:7 

merits 27:6 

28:23 

military 6:20 
22:24 33:15 
34:3 

46:7 

nuanced 18:7 
multimillion-...  number 10:18 

23:3 

35:5 

mutual 5:4,5 
O 
16:13 
mutually 16:20  O 2:1 3:1 
34:20 43:15 
mystery 11:4 

49:16 

million 3:14 
30:10 35:10 
43:20 52:19 
mind 9:8 47:20 
N 
48:23 
minimum 35:1  N 2:1,1 3:1 
Ministry 1:3 3:4  named 13:13 
4:5 6:20 10:12  narrowly 47:13 
11:6,21 13:12 
National 13:19 
13:14 14:14 
natural 22:2 
19:23 22:8 
23:22 33:3 
24:23,25 
minutes 32:6,18  nature 27:14,17 
54:15 
modulated 18:2  necessary 5:20 
14:18 33:11 
moment 7:6 
need 9:8 24:21 
needed 48:1 
needs 29:6 
never 22:23 

18:6,21 35:7 
40:22 

Monday 1:12 
monetization 

nearly 51:24 

42:25 

money 9:4,24 

19:14,25 20:5 
21:1,1,3,15 
26:18 29:3,3 
29:23 35:9,11 

23:17 38:5,8 
41:7 

new 11:18 13:9 

22:5 23:7 
28:13 31:3,3 
43:15 46:14 

obtain 5:1 
obvious 46:6 
obviously 6:15 

10:3 32:12 
37:15 45:17 
56:17 

occur 4:3 
occurred 13:3 

occurrence 7:3 

16:10 

17:16 

October 13:1 

24:18 
odd 11:9 
offset 6:8 7:21 
17:14 18:13 
26:19 27:9 

owes 9:24 19:14 
29:12,22 
offsets 56:7 
21:2 30:10,12 
offsetting 7:24 
35:19 38:11 
oh 48:19 
owing 33:21 
Okay 8:19 31:19  owned 22:8 

37:9 

owner 14:24,25 
owns 36:3 
P 

once 50:1 
ongoing 27:2 
opague 21:5 
open 12:2 
opinion 13:4,21  page 2:2 3:16 
27:7 29:8,8 
24:3 43:12,17 
54:25 
56:18 

P 3:1 

opportunity 

50:25 

oral 1:14 2:2 3:8 

pages 6:5,6 
paid 9:23 44:3 

49:14 52:18,21 

16:25 

panel 55:1,4 
panel's 54:24 

22:14 26:10 
32:2 
order 5:20 10:9  paragraph 
12:24 13:14 
parse 21:13 
19:21 25:23 
part 25:1 29:10 
30:4 31:12 
39:5 43:16 
46:4,14 48:21 
49:3 50:11,16 
50:20 

29:16 34:25 
40:3 55:14 

particular 13:18 

13:23 16:3 
22:4,22 37:21 
52:15 

parties 5:11 
16:14 21:7 
28:19,23 34:21 
34:23 35:4 
39:18 43:15 

party 3:16 46:8 

49:19 

passing 47:9 
pay 35:12 37:9 
39:13 47:21 
53:6 

payment 50:21 

55:3 

original 45:7 

50:15 

originally 11:24 

40:12 

ought 35:1 

37:21 42:22 
52:5 

outer 29:7 
outset 46:17 
overarching 

32:7 

payments 53:9 
owe 19:1 27:10 
pended 11:11 
29:23 34:8 
35:11,24 45:19  pending 11:2 
owed 21:15 44:2 
penny 45:21 
people 21:2,21 

45:6,22 

Owens 17:5 

46:1 

objection 7:16 
objections 11:9 
objects 19:21 
obligation 31:8 
obligations 6:17  orders 25:13 
12:13 27:19 
organic 15:22 
31:16 42:4,18 
organizations 
42:21 50:5 

13:23 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

32:12 35:17 
36:13 40:17 
41:18 47:17 
percent 38:21 

38:22 

perfectly 45:13 
performance 

55:6 

played 46:17 

54:1 

please 3:11 
22:18 32:5 

pled 34:2 
plenary 14:19 
pocketed 10:1 
point 12:3 20:1 

person 20:1,5 
38:9 39:13 

persons 20:17 
Petitioner 1:7 

24:17 27:2 
36:25 40:10 
43:9,11 48:25 
49:25 56:2 
1:19 2:4,12 3:9  points 37:2 
5:16,21 13:16

policy 52:13 
14:22 17:23 
24:19,24 25:14
 portion 46:6 
25:25 26:2,17 
54:17 56:13 

54:19 

49:7 

Petitioner's 9:13 

20:11 55:11 
presumably 

28:12 

pretty 8:20 54:1 
prevent 50:17 
prevented 19:11 
previous 32:6 
previously 

29:13 

pre-judge 27:6 
principle 5:9 

16:17 

prior 30:17 31:5 

31:5,6 46:14 
48:6 

private 6:18 
privity 17:8 
problem 38:18 

30:21,21,24 
32:24 33:1,7,9 
33:12 35:3 
39:8,8,20,21 
40:11,15,15 
42:23 44:24 
46:22,24 48:16 
48:20 49:10 
53:22,24 

protect 9:1,10 

56:5 

protection 3:14 

25:18 47:17 
56:3 

provide 32:16 

37:15 

provided 34:10 
provides 3:15 
47:16 51:7 

provision 4:16 

45:10 52:8 
53:21 

problems 51:7 
proceed 38:3 
proceeding 8:13 

position 5:5,17 
6:12,22 9:1,7 
9:13,13 10:11 
12:16 13:7 
14:21 18:2,3 
18:23 19:4 
20:21,22 21:12 
21:15 22:25 
23:16 24:8,9 
24:16,23 25:19  proceedings 
16:10 17:8 
26:8 27:7,11 
24:21 27:14,17  public 3:14 
28:22 37:24,24 
52:1 53:13,14 
42:17 46:4 
positions 11:1 

27:15 30:24 
31:3,9 33:8 
50:10 

56:16 

5:19 7:16 
16:19 21:9 
33:4 37:19,21 
38:20 39:1

51:10,11 55:14 

punitive 38:23

purpose 37:14 

provisions 54:4


proviso 14:12


27:6 

positive 41:3 
possibility 41:1 
possible 47:10 
possibly 4:22 
potentially 

proceeds 9:21 
12:23 28:4,5 
28:11,14 33:20  pursue 56:6 

51:23


process 8:14 

56:9 

prong 4:21 17:1 
proper 37:3 

put 11:21 21:19

28:22 37:21 
39:12 51:4,12

53:13 

46:15,16 48:12  properties 16:21  puts 35:12 
p.m 56:21 
Q 

43:16 44:7 
48:6,8,9 49:8 
property 3:18 

precedent 8:2 
precedents 10:5 
precisely 34:13 
predecessor 

question 3:22 

56:4 

prejudging 

28:22 

present 25:23 
presented 14:16 

3:22 4:22 5:18 
9:14,16 12:9 
12:10 16:8,14 
17:2 22:4 
24:19 27:2,15 
27:16 28:20 

7:18 12:5 
14:13 18:9 
20:11 23:17 
28:10 36:2,4 
36:11,21 38:8 

13:7 18:2 
26:21 31:14 
32:23 51:14 

Phillips 1:24 2:8 
32:1,2,4 33:17 
34:1,12 35:14

35:20 36:16,20 
37:12,14,18

38:12,15,18 
39:15,18 40:7

40:10,24 41:21 
42:10,20 43:7

43:10,23 44:5 
44:12,15,21

45:8 46:2,12 
47:7,16 48:2

50:7 51:13,19 
52:4,10,16,22

53:2,21 54:14 

phrase 55:8 
piece 40:14,15 

52:16 

pipeline 49:21 
place 44:1 45:6 

48:3 50:16 
56:14 

planes 19:11 

44:10 

38:13,14,16 
39:12 40:25 
41:16 42:21 
45:8 50:23 
55:17,24 56:1 
questions 14:22 

46:15 54:11 
queue 20:19 
quickest 41:11 
quotations 

39:20 

quote 27:20 29:9 

55:18 56:6

quoted 26:9 
quoting 5:24


R

R 3:1
Raffi 13:10 14:9 
raise 50:2
raised 41:16 
range 33:10 
reach 5:20 23:17 
reaches 29:7 
read 19:6 35:7 
36:14,14,21 
43:12 55:16 
reading 16:18

reason 15:5 23:7 

32:21

realistically

49:20 

reality 37:25
41:5 45:16
54:4

really 30:16
41:13 45:24
47:24 

49:2

reasonable

49:12 

REBUTTAL
2:10 54:16
recall 34:18
receive 3:17
received 3:13
27:9 30:11

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Republic 1:6 3:5 

15:2 

44:24 

13:16 

require 18:25 
required 41:24 

49:15 

resell 43:16 
reserve 22:10 
reserves 55:17 

55:23 

Resistance 

13:20 

resolution 11:5 

53:4 

resolve 36:2 

53:15 

resolved 8:23 
11:14 54:3 

resources 38:21 
respect 3:17 4:9 

10:4 17:9 
18:23 24:15 
34:19 38:5 
43:14 

respectful 15:19 
respective 11:2 

respond 31:10 

27:6 

55:7 

Respondent 

1:25 2:9 3:13 
3:23 9:3 13:7 
23:8 24:10,17 
25:6 26:1 
27:13,24 32:3 
54:19 

Respondents 

6:22 

Respondent's 
4:4 55:16,22 
56:1 

retroactivity 

return 12:3 

38:20,23 47:23 
48:18 

reversal 56:17 
reversed 8:14 
review 6:23 33:5 

42:14 

revise 24:3 
revolution 34:11 
right 7:11 18:22 

20:8,12,17 
21:23 24:11 
25:11,12,14 
26:8 35:6,13 
35:14,20 36:16 
36:17,23 37:12 
41:21 44:9,14 
46:12 47:17,22 
47:22 50:7 
52:23 56:5 
rights 3:17,23 
25:8 38:24 
39:1 53:5 56:6 

risk 3:15 32:8 
37:8 55:11 

road 44:6 
Roberts 3:3 4:6 

4:24 13:20 
15:10 16:1 
22:11 23:24 
24:7 25:16 
26:3 28:9,24 
31:23 33:14,18 
34:6 43:21,24 
44:9,13,16 
45:4,25 46:9 
49:25 51:10,15 
52:3,7 54:13 
56:19 

receives 4:1 6:7 

26:24 

recognize 52:1 

53:8 

recognized 

31:15 

recognizes 4:25 
recognizing 

recompensed 

30:17 

53:17 

relief 9:17,20 

17:2 27:9 
relies 27:25 
relinquish 3:17 

38:24 39:1 
relinquished 
13:8 24:10 
25:7 27:4 

relinquishment 
14:10,11 38:4 
38:19 49:14 

18:13 

rem 27:15 
recoup 52:18 
recouped 6:8 
remain 8:10 
recouping 52:20  remains 12:1 
remand 13:8 
recoupment 
14:20 24:24 
remark 6:15 
remedial 56:13 
remedies 32:16 
remedy 27:20 
27:22,25 28:4 
29:10 49:4 
remember 

recoveries 32:16 
recovery 17:7 
redress 37:15 

reduced 28:7 

31:22 

51:1 

reduces 29:19 
reduction 26:23 
referring 13:2 
refers 4:16 
reformulated 

45:2 

regard 43:17 
49:18 54:4 

regarded 35:1 
rejected 34:16 

40:1 

34:13 42:25 
remitted 4:5 
remotely 42:13 

50:17 

remove 9:4 
removed 35:2 
rendered 16:5 
rendering 24:13 
renders 11:7 

52:2 

related 5:7 9:15 

renounced 3:23 
16:15 17:14,17  repatriate 25:12 
17:18 

25:15 

relates 33:2 
relations 53:7 
relationship 
6:19 46:18 

relatively 30:8 

50:20 

released 4:4 
relevance 41:4 
relevant 5:15,16 

18:4 19:12 

relied 8:3 

repatriated 

25:25 

repatriation 

12:9 

repeat 16:4 
repeatedly 

27:16 

16:13 

represents 

reply 27:24 
representations  result 51:2 

14:8 

responding 42:2  Rubin 13:10 
response 54:19 
55:25 56:12 

rule 7:15,16 
17:13 37:8 
50:24 51:4 
retribution 53:9  ruled 15:18 

52:15 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

48:25 

rules 7:14,20 
ruling 11:23 
12:14 21:10 
55:6 

running 37:3 

S
S 2:1 3:1 
sale 27:23 28:4,5 
28:12 43:2,14 

sales 55:2 
salvage 55:4 
satisfied 31:4 
satisfy 30:4 
saves 29:3
saying 19:5 21:9 

23:4 26:16
34:8,24 38:20 
40:17,19 41:3 
says 30:10 35:22 

37:20 40:18
41:8 44:5,9
48:16 51:16
54:5 

scale 37:22 51:5 
51:12,22 55:21 

scenario 4:11 
scheme 32:14,15

32:17

screaming 45:18 
second 17:1

23:17 47:25
50:23

secondary 34:24 
secretary 13:1 

24:22 

section 8:24
37:23 51:16
55:19 56:4

see 22:6 27:21 

44:3 45:14
47:6 51:17 
52:3,7 55:8 

seek 27:22,22,25 
seeking 17:9
seeks 27:20

seize 47:12 48:5 
seized 49:9 
self-serving 29:4 
sell 33:19 44:17 

48:20 

sells 28:14 
send 45:12 
sense 11:13 21:6  sold 35:8 

17:18 34:17,22  soon 11:7 
43:3,19 45:2


sorry 7:7 18:1 

5:2,10 6:8 38:6  source 9:4 

21:8 42:12 
49:16 55:7 
sentence 16:2 
separate 8:13 

sequence 45:23 
series 39:19 
serves 34:25 
Services 17:6 
set 4:2,8,21,25 

setoff 7:13,14 

8:3 10:15 
12:19 15:6,9 
17:7,10 18:13 
18:25 19:22 
20:6 33:22 
42:2,17,19,19


setoffs 10:8 56:9 
sets 13:10 
settlement 7:1 

16:24 

shifts 53:11 
ship 44:2,10 
show 48:18 
shunted 32:20 
side 30:24 31:2 
sides 11:2 
significant 

37:14 

simpler 35:16 
simply 9:3 11:20 

31:6 36:25 
37:7 41:13 
49:13 55:23 
single 50:4,24 
singular 49:22 
sir 20:2,24 

submitted 56:20  Systems 11:6 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

21:5 

8:23 

47:14 

49:10 

subject 3:20 

situation 12:19 

35:13,21 36:3 
36:6,9 39:10 

straightforward 

sort 32:7 46:5 
sought 21:21 

situations 52:22 
slightest 22:7 
slightly 18:2 

Solicitor 1:21 
somebody 28:14 
somewhat 42:5 

stopping 50:21 
store 21:22 

strongest 36:24 
stuff 44:18 

4:19,23 7:4,14 
14:12 24:19 
27:3 28:6 
30:13,16,22 

28:3 29:24,24 
17:6 29:2 34:7  States 1:1,15,22 
36:8,12 48:15 
2:6 3:19,25 4:1 
53:22 
4:2,17,18 5:6,9 
5:22 6:3,4,12 
6:13,16 7:12 
8:2 9:1,7,11,13  strong 37:8 
9:25 10:18 
12:7,10,12,24 
16:20 18:3,3,5 
19:3,14 21:2 
21:12 22:15,19 
22:21,21,23,25 
23:2,21 24:16 
26:5,9,10,17 
26:18,23 27:5 
27:8,10,19 
28:4,7 29:14 
29:16,17,18,20 
30:10,11 31:13  subparts 33:11 
31:16 32:11,25  subrogate 52:23 
subrogated 56:6 
33:6,13 35:23 
subrogation 
36:1,12 37:4 
38:11 40:3 
41:16,19,21,23  subsequent 
42:3,7 46:14 
48:13,18 49:1 
49:8,11 50:5 
50:14 51:7 
52:17,20,23 
53:1,10,14,16 
54:7 56:5,7 

14:15 15:1,23 
substitute 15:13 
subtract 21:1 

Souter 8:4,12,19 
8:21 9:5 17:17 
17:21,25 30:23 
31:1,19 

Southern 16:11 
sovereign 17:9 
speak 6:12 9:12 

10:15 12:14 
18:5 

speaking 7:23 

43:9 49:7 
substantive 

submission 13:5 

substantial 43:8 

14:17 

56:22 

sounds 16:20 

52:24 

40:25


29:10 

19:3 20:14 
55:10 

specific 37:18 
39:8,11,19 
55:5 

specifically 

34:19 39:25 
51:4 

spoke 18:21 
stage 5:23 50:19 

54:7 

stages 50:10 
start 8:6 
state 24:22 25:1 

27:23 

stated 7:6 
statement 27:24 

state's 13:1 
status 20:14 

25:23 

statute 4:20 9:9 

26:25 28:18 
32:9,23 36:22 
41:24 47:9 
51:23 54:10 
56:2,4,16 

statutory 3:13 
4:14,16 32:14 
37:19 51:16,18 
52:9 55:14 
stayed 46:2,9 
step 35:2 

35:23,25 40:18 
40:20 

subtracted 

38:10 

successful 12:18 
successfully 

53:20 

sued 53:20 
sufficient 5:3 
suggest 10:10,12 

12:15 37:19 
52:11 56:12 
suggested 26:6 
suggestion 

15:12 

suggests 9:8 
support 1:4 3:5 

11:20 13:15 
22:20 23:3,13 
50:9 56:17 
suppose 9:20 

19:20 35:11,15 
35:22 

supposed 27:5 
Supreme 1:1,15 
sure 47:7 49:6 

56:11 

sweep 32:10

system 33:10 

39:21,22 40:6 
40:12,13 42:24 
42:25 

T
T 2:1,1 
table 50:12 
take 6:22 8:15 

12:23 16:6
19:5 21:14
37:7 40:16
43:25 

taken 11:1 21:18 
takes 8:5 13:6 

50:11

talking 53:25 
talks 32:24 
technical 32:20 
tell 24:2 39:17 
44:17 45:11
49:18 54:6
telling 52:8 
tempered 56:15 
ten 11:3 46:1 
term 27:16 
terminated

43:15

terms 7:24 10:5 

10:16 11:23
48:3 

terrorism 3:15 
32:17,19 37:1 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

transformations  trying 4:14 

22:19 54:5 

37:16 49:3 
51:5,22 52:21

terrorist 50:24 
test 16:2 29:4 
textual 8:23 
Thank 22:11 

told 5:23 
total 52:2 
totally 39:4,5 
tough 8:20 
Trading 17:5 
31:23,24 32:4  Trafficking 
54:13 56:19 

25:18 

theory 26:5 
33:21 41:9 
thing 46:20 
49:17 56:1 
things 45:12 

46:24 47:1,10 

think 4:13,20 
5:8 8:22 9:5 
10:11 11:19 
13:2 14:21 
15:2,19 16:5

16:17,22 18:7 
18:20 20:11 
21:8 23:19 
30:8,20 32:6

34:1 36:8 
42:10,13,20,22

43:5 45:18 
46:4,20 47:5

48:2 49:5 
51:19,21 52:10 
52:13,13 53:2 
53:4 54:23 
55:12,20 

thinking 15:15 
thought 11:12 
15:11 19:10 
20:13 41:2 

three 13:4 35:16 

47:6 

thrust 56:13 
thumb 37:22 

51:4,12

tie 52:5 
time 14:18 22:10 
times 47:3 
tip 51:21 
title 51:16 
today 13:16 

transaction 7:3 

17:16 30:18 

47:2 

TRIA 3:15 8:24 

13:8 14:10 
24:20 37:23 
56:13 

TRIA's 16:19 
tribunal 3:20,21 
3:25 4:19 5:6 
5:13,16,23,25 
6:4,10,13,16 
7:6,10,14,20 
8:2,5,15 9:2,15 
9:17 10:15 
12:5,7,12,15 
12:16 15:6,18 
15:20 16:9,13 
16:15 17:3,4 
17:11,15 18:12 
18:15,16 21:10 
22:22 23:1 
25:11,19 26:12 
26:22 27:1,3 
27:12,14,18 
28:7,16,19,21 
28:23 30:3,7,9 
30:14,21 31:12 
31:12,15 33:2 
33:2,7,22 35:3 
36:2,10 37:5,8 
38:2 39:25 
40:11,21 41:5 
41:10 42:2,13 
44:8 46:5,11 
46:16 47:3 
48:14,16,19 
50:3 51:8 

53:23,23 56:10  undertakings 

tribunals 24:1 
tribunal's 5:8,14  undertook 50:5 

16:14 

6:24 7:23 10:4  unfortunate 
10:5,16 15:17 
11:25 45:23 
unfortunately 
16:16 18:8 
19:22 54:24 

48:20 

true 42:7 
truth 46:12 
try 45:9 

15:15 20:20 
40:5,8 48:3 
turns 45:15 

46:17 

twice 37:9 
two 6:10,23 13:9 

16:2 18:18 
20:22 21:21 
34:12 35:17,18 
36:12 37:25 
40:17 42:18,21 
44:25 46:18 
47:9 49:19 
54:15 

two-million-d... 

23:14 

U 

ultimately 10:9
un 42:5 
unblocked 

22:23 

underlying 11:9 

12:1 34:20 
43:13 51:23 

understand 8:22 
9:6 11:23 25:3 
47:8 48:4 50:8 
understanding

14:7 15:16 
18:7 19:2 
40:22 

understood 

16:24 

undertaking 

43:3

United 1:1,15,22 
2:6 3:19 4:1,2 
4:17,18 5:5,9 
5:22 6:3,4,12 
6:13,16 7:11 
8:2 9:1,6,10,13 
9:24 10:17 
12:6,10,12,23 
16:20 18:3,3,5 
19:3,14 21:2 
21:12 22:15,19

22:21,21,23,25 
23:2,21 24:16 
26:5,8,10,17 
26:18,23 27:5

27:7,10,19 
28:4,6 29:14

29:16,17,18,20 
30:10,11 31:13

31:16 32:11,25 
33:5,12 35:23 
36:1,11 37:4 
38:11 40:3 
41:16,19,21,23
42:3,7 46:14 
48:13,18 49:1 
49:8,11 50:4 
50:14 51:7 
52:17,20,23 
53:1,10,14,16
54:7 56:5,7 
unknowable 

unquestionably

39:2


50:22 

unrelated 6:23 
29:15,21 42:5 
42:24 

unusual 49:23 
urge 54:11 

urging 41:17

use 23:2 27:16 

29:22 

useful 15:15 

16:6 

U.S 14:21 29:9 

41:9 56:10 

V

v 1:8
vacate 23:11,19

24:6

vacated 24:12 
valid 8:7 18:25 

23:12 

validity 8:9 12:1 
value 27:22 34:4 

34:15,17,24 
36:6 39:22,23 
45:1,3 55:4 

values 49:8 
various 16:21 
versus 3:6 
vice-versa 19:1
victim 37:7,22
47:12 50:24
51:5 

victims 3:14 

25:18 32:16,19 
37:1,16 47:17 
47:21 49:3
51:22 52:6,18
52:21 53:12,19 
56:3

view 26:17

29:18 31:11
35:25 36:1
50:14

viewed 41:25 
violated 27:19
violates 50:17
violation 31:16

43:18

Violence 25:18
vis-a-vis 20:21 

20:22

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

W 

waiver 7:16 
walked 34:21 
want 15:9 35:21 

36:15 37:7 
39:17 44:15 
47:13,24 

wanted 40:13 
44:12 56:5 
Washington 
1:11,21,24 
wasn't 45:6 
way 6:14 10:10 

21:13 33:4 
34:2 35:4,8 
36:14,14,22 
38:2 40:16 
41:2,14,25 
47:19 50:25 
51:20 52:12 
53:16 55:21 
ways 32:11,21 

45:22 56:7 

weapons 42:24 

42:25 

we're 29:21 

53:25 

wish 23:10 
won 19:7 
word 33:1 
words 7:18 

28:25 

work 53:1,3 
world 5:18 

worried 25:17 

16:22 

33:18 

worthy 37:1 
wouldn't 4:8 
26:4 41:16 
written 21:18 

26:25 

wrong 21:25 
39:17 40:23 

X 

x 1:2,10 9:24 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

6 
65a 33:8 
7 
79 46:22 
8 
80 46:22 
81 6:5 53:24 
815 12:4 
821 12:4 
83 6:6 
85 6:6 29:8 
85a 27:7 
9 
98 10:23 

Y 

years 11:3 46:1 

47:1 53:25 

York 11:18 22:5 

$ 
$2.3 3:13 
$2.8 30:10 43:20 

0 

07-615 1:8 3:4 

1 

11a 3:16 32:23 

51:14,15 55:13 

11:07 1:16 3:2 
12 1:12 
12:09 56:21 
16 27:24 
19-3 7:15 
1981 40:12 

2 

2 16:25 35:10 
2.3 52:19 
20 38:21,22 
2002(c) 56:4 
2007 12:24 13:1 

24:18 

2009 1:12 
201(c) 4:16 8:24 
201(c)(4) 37:23 
201(d) 37:18 
201(d)(4) 51:13 
22 2:7 
25 32:6,18 53:25 

3 

3 2:4 16:25 
30 7:16 
32 2:9 6:5 
4 
47 54:25 
5 

54 2:12 

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

