Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
UNITED STATES, 
:
                  
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 07-1410 
                       
NAVAJO NATION. 
: 
                  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, February 23, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:04 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Acting Solicitor General,
 Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
 the Petitioner. 

CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf

 of the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

19


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

47


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:04 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument first today in Case 07-1410, United States v. 
Navajo Nation.

 General Kneedler.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Mr. Chief Justice and may it 

please the Court:

 Six years ago this Court rejected the Navajo 

Nation's claim for damages in connection with the same 
action that is before the Court here, the Secretary's 
approval of amendments to the tribe's mineral lease in 
the mid-1980s. The Court held there that in order for 
the United States to be held liable under the Tucker Act 
or the Indian Tucker Act, the claimant must specify at 
the threshold a specific rights-creating or 
duty-imposing statutory or regulatory prescription that 
the government has allegedly violated.

 The Court found no warrant in any relevant 
statute or regulation to impose liability on the United 
States.  In particular, the Court concluded that the 
approval of the royalty rates in the tribe's lease was 
governed by the Indian Mineral Leasing Act of 1938, or 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

IMLA.  Looking at IMLA's framework, the Court held that 
there was no, quote, "textual basis," close quote, in 
any pertinent statutory or regulatory provision that 
required the Secretary to insist that the tribe 
negotiate for a higher rate.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, it said 

"pertinent or relevant," but surely that's limited to 
the statutory provisions that we examined in the case.

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  But I think the way to look 
at it is what the Court said, that it found no warrant 
in any relevant statute or regulation, and it discussed 
not just IMLA but several other statutes which -- which 
did have to do with the economic -- excuse me -- the 
economic terms of leases, but --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the question --
GEN. KNEEDLER:  -- didn't govern.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the question 

presented, General Kneedler, was limited to IMLA, to the 
Mineral Leasing Act.

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Well --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  That was the government's 

question presented.

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Two things about that.  The 
government's question presented was that the Court could 
not find the United States liable or -- was whether the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Court could find the United States liable without 
finding a violation of IMLA.  And therefore, the premise 
of the question was, without finding a violation of 
IMLA, the United States could not be liable, and the 
Court found no violation of IMLA.

 But beyond that, the tribe's principal 

submission in this Court was that the United States had 
control through a network of statutes, including the 
ones they rely on here.  But the Court also itself on 
page 30 of its brief in that case identified the 
relevant statute as being IMLA and the other two that 
this Court discussed and the general introduction to the 
Rehabilitation Act.

 So I think the structure of the Court's 

opinion, looking at the way the tribe serves it up, the 
Court said there has to be a specific violation of a --
of a statutory regulatory prescription.  The Court found 
that the relevant one was IMLA, and it found no 
violation.  And therefore -- and the Court also said the 
tribe's claim, not simply arguments made in favor of the 
claim, must fail.

 But if the Court concludes that its prior 

decision did not absolutely foreclose the litigation, we 
think it's clear that the framework that this Court 
announced in -- or reaffirmed in Navajo 1 itself does 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

foreclose the claim here.  As I said, the Court 
concluded that IMLA is the statute that governs the 
approval of royalty terms in coal leases.

 On remand, the Federal Circuit relied on two 

other statutes addressing other subjects, the Surface 
Mining Reclamation and Control Act, which has to do with 
the regulation of environmental issues and matters that 
may arise in connection with a coal lease, and the 
Hopi-Navajo Rehabilitation Act of 1950, which set in 
motion a general governmental program to rehabilitate 
and improve the economic life of the Navajo and Hopi 
Indians.

 But neither of those statutes had anything 
to do with the approval of the economic terms of coal 
leases.  That was governed by IMLA.  So the fact that 
the Federal Circuit on remand held the United States 
liable on the basis of two statutes that have nothing to 
do with coal leasing, minus the statute that did have 
something to do with coal leasing, in our view shows how 
far the Federal Circuit has strayed from this Court's 
teachings.

 But beyond that, we think it's a fortiori 

that the court of appeals erred in its alternative 
holding, which was that the United States could be held 
liable on the basis of general common law principles. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The Tucker Act and the Indian Tucker Act provide that 
the United States may be liable only for a violation of 
an act of Congress or a regulation.  And it was for that 
reason that this Court stated in Navajo -- in the Navajo 
1 case that there has to be a violation of a specific 
statutory or regulatory provision.

 Even as a general matter, under this Court's 

jurisprudence, there is only a very limited role for 
Federal common law, but that is especially so when what 
we are talking about here is liability for damages under 
a waiver of sovereign immunity, and the usual sovereign 
immunity principles have to cast considerable doubt on 
that.  Only an act of Congress or a regulation adopted 
pursuant to congressionally conferred authority can 
provide for the payment of money out of the Federal 
Treasury under our Constitution.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Are there cases in the 

courts of appeals where Indian tribes litigate with the 
Secretary and claim an abuse of discretion for the way 
in which the Secretary performs the duties with respect 
to Indian lands?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Under the Administrative 

Procedure Act, there could be -- there could be claims 
brought, but those would not be for money damages. 
They're --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I -- I recognize that, but 

I want to know, is there a body of law in the Federal 
Circuit that generally recognizes that the -- that the 
Secretary has a fiduciary obligation that's enforceable 
as a matter of administrative law?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Not in the Federal Circuit, 
to my knowledge, because -- because the Administrative 
Procedure Act --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I meant all of the 

circuits.

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Yes.  No -- in the -- under 
the Administrative Procedure Act -- I'm not -- just like 
any party could claim -- could challenge what was done 
by the Department taking particular administrative 
action.  And I think there -- I think that was what --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, what I was asking 

was whether there was some doctrine that the -- that the 
trustee -- that the Secretary acts in a capacity, a 
fiduciary capacity as a trustee.  If that doctrine were 
out there, then that might be the basis for saying that 
it's a sufficient foundation for a money damages.  I was 
just asking, is that doctrine there?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  No, not -- not in the way 
you put it.  But there are cases that certainly talk 
about this, that the Secretary has trust 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

responsibilities.  But there are a lot of ways in which 
that concept can be used.  It can be used in a political 
sense in that the United States Government, through 
treaties or a general sense of moral responsibility, 
should look out for the Indians, and in the day-to-day 
administration of Indian affairs, to contemplate a trust 
responsibility is simply to mean that the United States 
has a special relationship and should deal in that 
manner.

 And under the Administrative Procedure Act, 
if there is -- if there is an action the United States 
takes under a statute that governs Indian affairs, that 
would be -- that would be subject to judicial review 
under the general principles, is it arbitrary and 
capricious under normal principles, does substantial 
evidence sustain the determination?

 But, particularly in a suit for money 

damages under the -- under the Tucker Act and where 
Congress has said there has to be a violation of a 
money-mandating statute or regulation, general common 
law principles do not suffice.  As I said, for money 
damages, only Congress or an executive agency under --
acting pursuant to congressional authority under the 
Constitution can provide for the payment of -- of money 
out of the Federal Treasury. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I -- this may be a 
purely academic distinction, but you talked in terms of 
liability.  Are you suggesting that the trust principles 
do not set a standard to which the Secretary is bound, 
or simply that they don't constitute a waiver of 
sovereign immunity?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  I think it's really both. 

The general trust principles, at least -- at least again 
under Tucker Act jurisprudence, general trust principles 
are not what establish the Secretary's duties.  It's the 
acts of Congress that impose duties on the Secretary in 
this area as in any other, or regulations the Secretary 
has prescribed under it.

 Now under this Court's jurisprudence, the 
Court has said that the notion of trust is relevant at 
the second stage of the analysis.  The first stage is 
the threshold requirement that there be a specific 
statute or regulation that imposes duties or rights.  If 
the Court finds that, then at the second stage, as this 
Court has held in Mitchell 2 and indicated in Navajo as 
well, that may be relevant to determine whether those 
specific duty-imposing statutes in turn also impose 
monetary liability on the United States for violation.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Under both IMLA and the 

Rehabilitation Act, leases have to be approved by the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Secretary.  Doesn't that impose a duty on the Secretary?
 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Well, what the Court said in 
Navajo specifically with respect to IMLA, the Secretary, 
yes, does have to approve it, but the Court specifically 
rejected the proposition that there was any basis for 
liability stemming from the Secretary's approval of the 
lease.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, under the 

Rehabilitation Act, if it applied to this lease, what 
would the Secretary's duty be?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Section 5 of the 

Rehabilitation Act for approval of leases is essentially 
the same as IMLA.  It provides for the Secretary to 
approve the lease.  But, as this Court held in IMLA --
or in Navajo 1, the theory of IMLA is not to have the 
Secretary be responsible or to take the lead in leasing 
tribal lands for coal purposes.  It's the tribe, subject 
to the approval, and the Court concluded it would be 
inconsistent with that arrangement for the Secretary to 
second-guess the determinations that the secretary had 
made.  And the Court -- the argument was made there and 
expressly rejected that the Secretary was required to 
insist that the tribe negotiate a higher amount when it 
renegotiated the lease.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  The Secretary has to apply 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

some standard, presumably.  What is it?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  What -- what the secretary 

has adopted -- has done is by regulation, is to say that 
-- that there is a minimum that the tribe cannot go 
below.  At the time -- at the time of the renegotiation 
of this lease in 1987, from 1984 to 1987, there was a 
minimum of 10 percent or 10 cents per ton.  The tribe 
was getting 37.5 cents per ton.  This lease was 
renegotiated in connection with a clause in the lease 
that allowed adjustments for reasonable rates, which is 
not the same thing as maximizing the tribe's -- the 
tribe's revenues, so the Secretary had a regulation at 
the time of 10 cents per ton.  The Secretary now has a 
regulation that says the minimum royalty rate will be 
12.5 percent, which, as Court pointed out in Navajo 1, 
is the standard royalty rate for Federal and tribal 
leases throughout the United States.

 Now, what is significant, in further 

response to your question, is that regulation states 
that that minimum rate is 12.5 percent unless the 
Secretary determines that a lower rate would be in the 
best interest of the Indians.  So the way this works 
then, the way the Secretary has implemented it, it's 
basically up to the tribe to negotiate something at or 
above the minimum.  If it's below the minimum that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Secretary's prescribed, the Secretary has to make a 
judgment that that going lower, maybe because of a 
geological conditions or whatever, is in the best 
interest of the Indians.  And that is -- that is borne 
out --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is that in IMLA or is that 

in the Rehabilitation Act?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  That's in IMLA.  That's an 

IMLA regulation.  The general regulations that implement 
the Rehabilitation Act have a similar provision.  They 
don't talk about royalties, which I think is telling 
because royalties have to do with coal leases.  They 
talk about -- they require it be a fair rental for 
property, not a maximum rental but a fair rental.  And 
then it has the same sort of thing, that if it's going 
to be below the fair market value it has to be in the 
best interest of the Indians.

 And I think it's instructive that I know 

there's been an argument that this lease is governed by 
-- by the Rehabilitation Act rather than IMLA, and 
notwithstanding what this Court held in Navajo 1 six 
years ago, but in 1999 when Secretary Babbitt, who 
joined the brief arguing this is covered by the 
Rehabilitation Act, approved the amendments to the lease 
in 1999, he approved it under the IMLA regulations and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

he specifically said that because the minimum royalty 
rate is 12.5 percent -- he is quoting the applicable 
regulation -- "I do not have to decide whether the 
royalty rate is in the best interest of the Indians." 
He went on to say:  "But I think it is."

 So secretary Babbitt's approval of those 
amendments really explains the way the Secretary has 
implemented the statutory scheme, and we think that's 
certainly well within the Secretary's discretion under a 
statute that did not impose any limitations.  With 
respect to the Rehabilitation Act, the general leasing 
provision of that act, as we've explained in our brief, 
does not apply to mineral leases.  That continued to be 
governed by IMLA after 1950.  But even if it did, there 
is nothing in section 5 that imposes any more specific 
duties with respect to royalty terms or any other terms 
than IMLA itself.  Section 5 has to do with surface --
leases for surface users, business purposes basically. 
And that was put in there because at the time there was 
no provision for long-term leases if somebody wanted to 
bring a surface commercial venture onto a reservation.

 But the last sentence of section 5 of the --

of the act on page 171a of the petition appendix says 
that:  "Nothing contained in section 5 shall affect the 
authority" -- "shall be construed to repeal or affect 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the authority under any other act of Congress."  So 
section -- and the other act of Congress here is IMLA.

 I think it's also -- I think it's also 

instructive to point out not only did this Court hold 
the last time around that the lease was governed by 
IMLA, that was the tribe's position in this case.  Its 
proposed findings of fact indeed in the Court of Federal 
Claims, pages 524 and 525 of the joint appendix, said 
the lease was governed by IMLA.

 But the textual dispositive point is that 

the lease couldn't have been entered into under the 
Rehabilitation Act.  The lease in this case provided 
that the lease would be for a term of 10 years and then 
subject to a further extension for as long as minerals 
are produced in paying quantities.  That precise 
language is repeated in the lease, which shows that it 
was under IMLA.

 Under section 5 of the Rehabilitation Act, 
the lease could only be for an initial term of 25 years 
and then a further term of 25 more years.  It wouldn't 
have allowed for this sort of lease here and indeed, 
because the initial lease term here was 10 years and 
then could have only been 25 more years under the Rehab 
Act, this lease would have had to expire in 1999, and 
yet it was amended at that time and continues in effect 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and mining continues under it.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  The other side says that 
certain standard provisions in the IMLA leases did not 
exist in this lease.  Is that accurate?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  No.  Well, they said -- I 
think -- the only thing I think they say along those 
lines is that -- has to do with the form of the lease.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  With the forms?
 GEN. KNEEDLER:  The form on which the lease 
is used.  I think what they said is there were several 
provisions that appear in regulations under general 
statutes that are related to leases.  One has to do with 
the property can't be used for unlawful purposes, and 
I'm forgetting what the second one was.  But it wouldn't 
be unusual that the Secretary might borrow or a tribe 
might borrow provisions from other leases and put them 
in this lease.

 This is -- again, IMLA provides for 
negotiation.  So the parties are free to put in 
particular provisions of lease.  So that the fact that 
there might be things that would parallel what were in 
the other leases we don't think is really dispositive.
 Also, the other significant thing is that 

the lease itself incorporates or refers to by reference 
the IMLA regulations.  So even if somehow the lease were 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

thought to be governed by Section 5, even though that 
wasn't what it was issued under, the IMLA regulations 
would control, and this Court already held in Navajo 1 
that those IMLA regulations, which are in the lease, do 
not impose any -- did not impose any -- did not impose 
any duty on the Secretary with respect to the approval, 
approval of the lease.

 I should also point out that when the -- we 

cite this in our briefs, that at the time the lease 
amendments were approved in 1987 the Solicitor's Office 
did a legal review of the propriety of the lease 
amendments and that legal review expressly says that the 
lease was entered into under IMLA.

 So I think the circumstances are really 
overwhelming that it was entered into under IMLA and 
that the Rehabilitation Act lease provision does not 
have anything to do with this lease.  And the more 
general emanation from the Rehabilitation Act that the 
tribe seeks to rely on here are too general and short. 
The Rehabilitation Act was enacted in 1950 in 
recognition that the plight of the Navajo and Hopi was 
very serious, and Congress undertook to study resources 
and put in the infrastructure and that sort of thing, 
and part of it was to have programs -- excuse me --
studies to determine what the tribe's coal resources 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

were, and that was done, and this lease grew out of 
that.  But that doesn't mean that it was in any way 
governed by the Rehabilitation Act.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  General Kneedler, the 

last time -- the last time around, we remanded for 
further proceedings consistent with our opinion.  Would 
you advocate a different bottom line this time?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Yes.  I would -- I would 

suggest that this case be reversed.  I mean this -- this 
concerns a -- outright and with directions to dismiss 
the complaint.  This -- this controversy arose in the 
mid-1980's.  The litigation has been going on since 
1993, and it's been -- this is now the second time that 
it's been -- that it's been to this Court.

 And we think in doing so that the -- that 

the Court should reiterate the analytical framework that 
it put forward in -- in its decision the last time 
around so that there will be no mistaking the way these 
cases are to be handled in the Federal circuit in the 
future by requiring that the threshold, a -- as I said, 
a specific statutory or regulatory provision that 
imposes duties and not in particular looking at general 
notions of common law that -- that might arise out of --
out of some sort of -- some sort of factual control.

 The last thing I wanted to say is that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Federal circuit also relied on the Surface Mining 
Reclamation and Control Act.  And that -- and that, as I 
said, has to do with environmental issues in connection 
with -- with Indian leases.  The Federal circuit relied 
on a provision that says that the -- that the Secretary 
should include in any Indian leases additional 
provisions that were proposed by the tribe.  But that's 
additional provisions in addition to other environmental 
provisions extending from the statute that had to be in 
the lease.  It was -- it was just quite a stretch for 
the -- for the court to conclude that that somehow 
controlled the economic terms of the leases.

 If there are no further questions, I will 

reserve the balance of my time.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, General.
 Mr. Phillips.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, 

and may it please the Court:

 I think I would like to start with Justice 
Alito's question because he said:  Doesn't Section 5 of 
the Rehabilitation Act specifically require the 
Secretary to approve this lease?  And Mr. Kneedler 
conceded that it does.  And so then the question is: 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Doesn't that create some kind of a duty?  And it seems 
to me clearly it does, just as the Court I think 
implicitly said in Navajo 1, the difference between 
Navajo 1 and Navajo 2 being that this Court then went on 
to examine IMLA, the Indian Mineral Leasing Act.

 It concluded that IMLA very specifically for 
the entirety of native Americans and for the entirety of 
Indian mineral leasing had a preference to ensure that 
the Indian tribes themselves would -- would attain a 
certain self sufficiency.  And it essentially advocated 
the responsibility of having to deal with individual 
negotiations and allowed it for the tribes to take over.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But, Mr. Phillips, I'm 

looking at the last paragraph, and it says:  We have no 
warrant from any relevant statute or regulation, et 
cetera.  So it wasn't limited to IMLA.  Do you think 
that was just carelessness on the Court's part?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Oh, I would -- I would never 
assume that, Justice Ginsburg.  I -- I think -- I think 
the operative term here is "relevant."  And that is that 
the Court for purposes of analyzing the question 
presented and disposing of it evaluated not only IMLA 
but the other two provisions that the -- that the 
government and the Court felt needed to be disposed of 
at that point. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The Court didn't address the alternative 

arguments under either Macrow or the Rehabilitation Act. 
To be sure, they were argued.  But I -- I have seen many 
instances in which alternative arguments were made, and 
--

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I don't understand your 
answer.  If you say that those were not relevant and, 
therefore, they were not covered --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Not relevant to the question 
presented, which is the proper interpretation of the --
the Indian Mineral Leasing Act.  And, indeed, if you 
look at the other two provisions, the opinion of the 
Court analyzing them through the -- through the prism of 
the Indian Mineral Leasing Act, it says those don't add 
to the Indian Mineral Leasing Act.

 Our argument here is that Section 5 of the 
Rehabilitation Act provides a wholly independent basis 
on which there is a duty imposed, but that duty is then 
implemented in the regulations that are identified in 
the -- in the Secretary's --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  In the Rehabilitation Act, 

the requirements for approval of lease, is -- is that 
applicable to mineral leases?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Is that applicable to mineral 

leases? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  Absolutely, it's applicable 
to mineral leases.  The -- the language of the statute 
is "business leases, including those for the development 
of mineral resources."  So clearly it applies to Indian 
mineral leases, but --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry.  Where is 

the specific reference to mineral leases, mineral 
resources?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Mineral resources.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  It says "resources." 

I don't remember it saying "mineral resources."

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes, the development of the 

"resources" for the Navajo and Hopi Indians.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That's a big 

difference, don't you think?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I'm sorry.  The development 

for utilization of natural resources.

 But the basic point there is, at least as I 
read section 5, what it's saying is that it grants broad 
leasing authority.  The Solicitor General is absolutely 
right about that.  But that authority extends to certain 
kinds of mineral leasing.

 And that says -- and that's an authority and 

it's important to recognize this.  Because while it is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

true for the run-of-the-mill Native Americans who are --
who are engaged in mineral leasing it may make sense to 
say:  Look, we -- we are going to take a hands-off 
approach for the most part.  We are going to set a 
minimum ceiling or a minimum floor and above that you 
negotiate as hard as you want.

 But the -- but the Navajo were in a 

fundamentally different position in 1950 when this 
legislation was enacted.  The -- the median education on 
that -- on that reservation was less than one year of 
education.

 The resources were $400 per year annual 

income.  This was a tribe in horrible condition.  And so 
it would make perfect sense for Congress to say:  Look, 
for -- for most tribes we want to go ahead and have the 
approval be based with the -- with the Secretary taking 
a hands-off approach above a certain minimum, but when 
you deal with the Navajo --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Is it your -- is it your 

position that it would be -- that it -- it is not lawful 
for coal on the Navajo Reservation to be leased under 
IMLA, that the lease would have to be solely under 
section 5 of the Rehabilitation --

MR. PHILLIPS:  No, I don't think it would 

have to be solely under it.  I -- I think that's a -- a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

false dichotomy.  I don't think this is an either/or 
proposition.  I think there are parts of IMLA that can 
reasonably be applied here, and -- and section 5 
specifically says no authority from other statutes, 
which would include IMLA, is meant to be superseded by 
the passage of section 5.  So I think there is a rule.
 And I think that the lease -- if you read the 

lease on its face -- Justice Scalia asked the question: 
Does this lease conform to the form lease that you get 
under IMLA?  The answer is clearly not.

 This is a mix and match between some 
provisions, it seems to me, that clearly provides 
additional protection for the Navajo and other 
provisions that --

JUSTICE ALITO:  But the lease -- the lease 
doesn't follow the -- the requirements of section 5 of 
the Rehabilitation Act in -- in respect to its term. 
But what is your -- is it your position that in entering 
into a lease the tribe has the authority to decide that 
we want this to be under IMLA; we want this to be under 
the Rehabilitation Act?  When it comes up to the 
Secretary for approval, does the Secretary have the 
authority to say, I'm going to approve this under IMLA; 
I'm going to approve it under section 5?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I think the Secretary has to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

approve it under both of those provisions.  It is just 
that IMLA in this particular context would impose a 
10-cent minimum over time.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What do you do about the 
fact that the term of this lease would -- would not be 
permitted under the Rehabilitation Act?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I think it would be permitted 

under the Rehabilitation Act because the last sentence 
of section 5 specifically says that this is not meant to 
limit any other authority provided under any other 
statute.  And since IMLA provides additional time and 
durational protections for the tribes under these 
circumstances, that provision would definitely allow you 
to use IMLA's time limits rather than the Rehabilitation 
Act.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  Explain to me the --

the relevant scope of IMLA and the Rehab Act.  The --
the argument that you made, that you just made, makes 
perfect sense if the Rehab Act applies to some kinds of 
-- of leases or contracts that the -- that the IMLA does 
not.

 And yet I -- I thought you were saying a 
little bit earlier that the Rehab Act applies to all 
mineral leasing, because that would be the development 
of the natural resource.  And if that is so, then there 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

seems to be a pretty clear conflict, even on your own 
argument, between the term provisions in the Rehab Act 
and the term provisions of IMLA with respect to -- to 
mineral leases.  How do -- how do we get out of that 
problem for you?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes.  I think the -- the key 

distinction is to look at the -- at who is being 
regulated, and under the Rehabilitation act it's the 
Navajo and the Hopi.  And -- and Congress said, look, we 
are going to take special care to protect and to try to 
put them into a position where they can even just catch 
up to other Native Americans.

 And so it seems to me that there is --

that's a special protection with a special duty, and 
that duty is enforced through the 162 regulations.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But it's a special 

protection and special duty that applies to every one of 
the mineral leases, including this one, that the Navajo 
may be involved in.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Correct.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  So I -- what -- maybe --

maybe I missed the point, but would you go back to 
justice Scalia's question:  How is it that there is not 
a conflict here between this lease and the Rehab Act?
 MR. PHILLIPS:  Because the last section 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

under section 5 says that, notwithstanding anything 
else, this provision doesn't preclude -- doesn't --
doesn't limit the authority that would otherwise exist.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But that, in effect -- but 
that, in effect, is saying this -- this provision will 
never apply to a mineral lease with the Navajo or the 
Hopi.  I mean, you are reading it right out of the act 
with respect to these two tribes.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Which is all that the 

Rehabilitation Act -- I'm sorry.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I'm sorry, it's because the 
provision applies to a lot of other leases, too.  Are 
you asking when the 20 or 10 and 10.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  With respect -- my point is 
with respect to every mineral lease of the Hopi and the 
Navajo, you are saying the term provision never applies. 
Am I correct --

MR. PHILLIPS:  No, I understand.  Right.  I 
have the answer your question which is this provision in 
section 5 applies not just to mineral lease, it applies 
to all business site leasing.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But it only applies to 
those two tribes.  And there is something very, very 
strange, it seems to me, in saying that the -- that the 
kind of -- the saving sentence at the end of section 5 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

reads its very term limit provisions out of every -- out 
of every possible application for mineral lease by these 
two tribes.  And that's what you are saying.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  But -- but -- but the 

important distinction -- and I hope I can articulate 
this -- is that section 5 applies beyond mineral leases.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  I realize that.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  So that all -- so the time 

limitation of 10 years and 10 years, if you bring a 
barber shop, you want to build a barber shop on those 
lands, you want to lease the space in order to do that, 
you would be subject to the section 5 time limitations, 
unless for some reason there is another authorization 
somewhere.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  But that, in effect, 

means that -- and I don't want to overdo your barber 
shop analysis or example, but that, in effect, says --

MR. PHILLIPS:  I need a haircut.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  -- on -- on trivial lease 
contracts there are term limits, but on the ones that 
really count, where the real money is, doesn't apply at 
all.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  There is a -- way beyond that 

there is an entire defense plant on the Navajo tribe --
on the Navajo reservation right now that would obviously 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

be subject to precisely these same limitations.  So it's 
not just trivial, it's all business lease citing that is 
covered why that.

 So it seems to me not at all unreasonable to 

think that Congress, in its -- in its very protective 
effort here under section 5 would say, here are all the 
leases that you are allowed to enter into.  You have 
broad leasing authority, we are going to protect you 
against overreaching by restricting how long you can go, 
but if there are other provisions of law that allow 
these to be modified in a particular area, we will allow 
those to be modified in that way.

 And in this context, what that last sentence 

would, in my mind, say is there is no reason to try 
and -- to say that IMLA or the Rehabilitation Act.  It 
seems to me much more sensible to say that Congress 
would have intended multiple protections for the Navajo.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Let's assume that, and I --
I -- I think your argument is well taken.  But assuming 
that, don't we also have to assume that the stress in 
IMLA on placing primary responsibility on the tribes, 
not on the Secretary should, in fact, also be imported 
to the application of the Rehab Act as you say it should 
be applied.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  But you see I don't 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

think that's an authority.  I would say -- I would not 
read --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  What's not an authority?
 MR. PHILLIPS:  The notion that the Navajo 
tribe would be in a position to better -- to better --
to -- I'm sorry, to achieve self-sufficiency.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  You made a good 

argument a few moments ago for the fact that it would 
have been at least at one time inappropriate to thrust 
that responsibility on the Navajo, but there was no 
Navajo exception in IMLA.  That responsibility was 
thrust on the Navajo --

MR. PHILLIPS:  I'm sure there isn't --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  -- and this Court 

recognized that.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  But that's exactly 
why the Navajo Rehabilitation Act of 1950 does modify 
IMLA.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  With respect to that --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Expired --
MR. PHILLIPS:  I'm sorry?
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- the opinion in the 

last time around not only contained the statement that I 
read before, that is, any relevant statute, but in the 
very beginning it says, "We hold the tribe's claim for 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

compensation from the federal government failed," and 
there is a well known distinction between a claim at 
issue and attributing to the Court that kind of 
carelessness for saying that the claim is barred as 
distinguished from an issue, the issue being IMLA.  I 
think the Court was conscious of that distinction when 
it used the word that the claim failed, not just the 
issue.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Obviously, Justice Ginsburg, 

you are in a much better position to judge what was 
intended here.  On the other hand, my experience with 
the Court generally is that when you analyze a case, 
that you analyze it in terms of the specific question 
that is presented, and if you are posing to go beyond 
the question presented, you say so expressly, not simply 
by the use of the word "claim" or "argument."

 So while I recognize that the Court -- that 

the government has an argument to be made that has 
pre-decided that, I think, frankly, one, the Court 
didn't decide this issue; and two, the Court should 
decide the question that was presented here as to the 
scope of section 5, because it's obviously of 
extraordinary importance to not only section 5 but also 
to section 8 as well.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Phillips, the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

government says that by the time this lease was 
executed, the Rehabilitation Act was a dead letter. 
That it was meant to stimulate economic activity on the 
Navajo reservation, and there were funds appropriated 
for that purpose and that all had been played out by the 
time this lease was entered into.

 Is there something wrong with that?
 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yeah, the government's wrong 
about that.  I believe -- the program itself is for the 
overall rehabilitation of the Navajo and the Hopi. 
There are a series of projects that the -- where the 
statute says such programs shall include the following 
projects.  It doesn't say it's limited to the following 
projects, and those projects have been set out over 
time.

 But the program itself is not limited that 

way and more fundamentally, it is completely 
inconsistent with that kind of time limitation on the 
statute overall.  Congress would have repealed certain 
sections of this act, sections 9 and 10 after the 
10-year period that expired if the statute didn't have 
any continuing implication.

 It also would have meant that the leasing 
protections in section 5 had expired after 10 years, 
which seems to me quite inconsistent with the overall 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

purpose here to accomplish that.  So I think the 
temporal argument doesn't get the government 
particularly far.

 I would like to take a second to talk about 

sort what I think is an important distinction between 
635 and other provisions, which is that 634(a) imposes a 
duty that the Secretary's brief, I think, evidently sets 
out, that duty means that you have to make sure there is 
fair market value, that those are reasonable rates, and 
that was not done.  So that's the violation that took 
place.

 Then the question is, is there a 

money-generating, money-mandating obligation imposed 
here.  And there it seems to be the distinction between 
635(a), which said nothing about liability, and 635(b) 
and (c), which expressly -- expressly excludes the 
possibility of liability, suggests clearly why 635(a) 
ought to be viewed by this Court as a sufficient -- as 
creating a fair inference, is what the Court said in 
Mitchell two, a fair inference under these particular 
circumstances.

 The other issue that we have put on the 

table that the government didn't actually address in its 
opening, although I have to suspect --

JUSTICE BREYER:  So you are saying that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

635(a) creates an inference that 635(c) creates a 
fiduciary duty?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  No, 635(a) creates the 

fiduciary duties.  The juxtaposition of (a) to (b) and 
(c) demonstrates that that duty is a money-mandating or 
rights-creating duty that's enforceable under the Indian 
Tucker Act, Justice Breyer.

 The other duty, it seems to me, that the 

Secretary breached there is the duty embedded in section 
8 of this statute, which requires him to make 
disclosures as part of this program.  And the one thing 
that is absolutely clear that the Court of Federal 
Claims --

JUSTICE BREYER:  That's the part that I'm 
not getting. You are saying -- the question, I guess, 
basically is, does the language of 635(a) that says with 
the approval of the Secretary, the Indians can, among 
other things, for business purposes lease the land. 
Right?  That's what it says?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  And then --
JUSTICE BREYER:  And that doesn't seem much 
different from the IMLA, to tell you the truth, to me. 
It doesn't seem different at all.  But now you are 
saying, no, it's really different because look at (b) 
and (c), that's your basic argument? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  I look at (b) and (c) and 
it says -- when you lease something under (b) and (c) 
which is not (a) -- (b) and (c) -- you have to have this 
all supervision, and so forth, or it has to be at a fair 
value, something like that; is that right?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, it doesn't -- it 

doesn't --

JUSTICE BREYER: (B) and (c) say that land is 
owned in fee but, let's see -- what is -- sorry, I don't 
want to delay you on this.  I thought that (b) and (c), 
you were saying, create an obligation -- create more of 
a trust obligation.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  No, just to read (b) which 
unfortunately isn't reproduced I don't think in any of 
the papers, but it says notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, land owned in fee simple by the Navajo 
may be leased, sold or otherwise disposed of by the sole 
authority of the tribal council in any manner that a 
similar land in this State is situated may be leased, 
sold or otherwise disposed of by other private land 
owners, and the -- such disposition shall create no 
liability on the part of the United States.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  So why does that -- why 

does that mean that this Act creates a trust 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

relationship?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  No, that -- the -- the trust 

relationship doesn't come out of the PNC; the money 
creating component of it, it seems to me comes, out of 
PNC.  The trust relationship comes from the fact that 
the entirety of the statute was enacted to implement the 
treaties, that these are all lands that are held in 
trust, and that -- and that there is a specific duty 
embedded in (a) that requires that the Secretary approve 
what is otherwise basically controlled as a trust 
arrangement, and that is implemented through regulations 
that require the Secretary to do this under a fair 
market value standard.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, give me an -- an 

instance in the statute that is in opposition brief of 
the orange brief at page 5.  Give me an example of why 
the last clause "and such disposition shall create no 
liability on the part of the United States," what 
contingency was that directed to if not the one that is 
before us?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, that's for the sale of 

fee simple lands, so you are dealing with a very 
different set of -- of circumstances.  Which is talking 
about -- it's aimed clearly at a different set of 
properties that were being held and therefore they said, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

when you engage in leases for that kind of property, 
there is no liability.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But your -- your argument 

is that simply because there isn't that kind of an 
exclusion in (a), there must have been an intent to 
permit liability.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  A fair inference, I think is 

all I have to demonstrate --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Thank you, but now what of 
course is at the back of my mind is I'm trying to see, 
if this -- is this statute stronger for you than the 
statute we already considered?  And I start with some 
suspicion, because I think if it is a stronger statute 
for you, you would have argued it the last time.  So I 
wonder why you didn't.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I wasn't here then.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  So somebody thought maybe 

it was a weaker statute, so -- but I will put that 
suspicion aside.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Can I ask you --
JUSTICE BREYER:  So anyhow that's the 

fundamental question in my mind.  I look at the language 
and so forth, but the language doesn't seem any stronger 
for you, at least at first blush.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.  There's two -- there 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

are two answers; I was being facetious as to why we 
didn't push this argument the last time.  It was largely 
because the Federal Circuit concluded the last time 
based on IMLA alone that there was in fact a sufficient 
right-creating provision.  And therefore we depended --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So did you, Mr. Phillips. 
Last time around you acknowledged that the Peabody lease 
was governed only by IMLA.  That -- those words were 
from your brief last time around.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I don't know if those were 

from the brief.  I know there was a statement of 
undisputed facts in the first round of litigation.  But 
there is no question in the Court -- if we are right, 
that the Court remanded to -- from consideration 
consistent with this.  We then went down upon remand 
from the Federal Circuit; we took additional discovery; 
and we obtained the information that we got.  And also, 
remember, the United States' brief in the Ninth Circuit 
specifically says that this was approved pursuant to the 
Rehabilitation Act --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But I thought -- you are 

really saying that you were wrong in make that 
concession.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  That was an overstatement, 

there's no question.  Based on what we knew at the time, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

we thought it was in fact an IMLA lease, but in truth --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  In -- IMLA --
MR. PHILLIPS:  -- is it's not IMLA, anyway.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it is the statute 

that seems most closely on point, because it's the only 
one that talks about mineral leases exclusively.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Yes, but this is the only one 
that deals specifically with the Navajo Reservation and 
deals with leasing for business purposes for the 
development of resources.  And so while I -- I agree 
with you in one sense, the other one has a -- some 
superficial closeness here.  It seems to me that the 
closer one is actually the provision that deals with 
this specific reservation and this specific type of a 
lease arrangement.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But you knew all of 

that -- that's not -- that's not something you 
discovered on remand.  You knew all that before.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, we -- we obtained 

additional information, certainly, you know.  We have 
the Udall declaration that specifically said that when 
he negotiated this lease he negotiated it as the 
centerpiece of the Navajo-Hopi Rehabilitation Act of 
1950.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And that affidavit 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was before or after our decision the first time around?
 MR. PHILLIPS:  It was after the first time 

around.  I mean, there is no question that if we had won 
the first time around, we would have stood by that 
statement, but having lost it --

(Laughter.)
 MR. PHILLIPS:  -- there is a tendency to 

focus the mind elsewhere, and we did.  But the reality 
is that if you look at the parties, the -- Secretary 
Udall specifically says this was adopted pursuant to the 
Rehabilitation Act.  Peabody Coal Company in briefing in 
the Arizona courts has specifically said that this was 
approved under the Rehabilitation Act, and the United 
States Government itself in briefing in other courts has 
said that this was approved pursuant to the --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You bring in Federal 

officials to testify years after the fact as to what 
basis they acted earlier?  That's very strange to me.  I 
don't know what -- what motive Secretary Udall has today 
that might induce him to say that.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Obviously --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  If there was some statement 
at the time, I could understand it, but bringing him in 
how many years after -- 40 years after?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  He has a good memory, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Justice Scalia.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PHILLIPS:  No, Justice Scalia, I 

understand that, but the -- the bottom line here is, the 
question is, is this, you know -- is it absolutely clear 
that this is exclusively an IMLA lease?  And the answer 
to that is there is a lot of evidence that suggests no. 
It's not in the form of IMLA; there are a lot from other 
statements that say yes, and more fundamentally it seems 
to me is the Court should not view it as an either/or 
proposition.  It could be adopted under IMLA or it could 
be adopted separately.  So the section 8 argument --

JUSTICE ALITO:  I thought that your argument 

earlier was that all leases of mineral rights on the 
Navajo-Hopi land are governed by the Rehabilitation Act, 
and it's not a factual question as to which statute 
anybody chose at the time of the negotiation of the 
lease.  But recently, in the last few minutes, you seem 
to be arguing that it was a factual issue that was --
that was unearthed only through later discovery.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I don't know that it's 

a factual question; it is that candidly, we obviously 
focused more on IMLA because the Federal Circuit --
first of all, the Court of Federal Claims in the first 
go-around adopted IMLA as the test and just said you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

lose because you don't have an IMLA lease here; and we 
had argued here that it's not just an IMLA lease.  Then 
we went to the Federal Circuit and we won on the grounds 
that it was an IMLA controlled error and we should 
prevail on that basis.  When it was sent back down and 
we obviously didn't have IMLA available, since the 
Federal Circuit specifically precluded us from any 
further reliance on IMLA, we looked at the other 
provisions; we tried to understand their context, and 
then that -- all I'm trying to do is explain why it is 
that we would suddenly focus more on the Navajo act, not 
to say that you couldn't read the statute and say it 
would necessarily apply in that circumstance.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That isn't really my 

question, because I've tried to erase from my mind any 
suspicion about why you did or didn't argue it last 
time; and looking at it straight afresh, I think when 
the Court of Claims got this back, as any judge would, 
the first thing they do is look at the words of the old 
statute, look at the words of the new statute, and try 
to figure out if the new statute that you cited is 
somehow more supportive of your claim than the old one 
was.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  So what have we got 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

here in that respect?  What we seem to have is two later 
provisions that say the government shall have no 
liability when it enters into leases.  I mean, maybe 
that helps you, but at the moment, I am slightly 
escaping it.  And then I guess there is some regs that 
were promulgated after the lease was entered into and 
seem on their face to deal with other matters.  Okay, 
now, what am I missing?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  I'm not sure I understand the 

last part about --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well the regs you didn't 

emphasize, so forget them.  If you don't want to rely on 
them we won't.

 The -- but I've looked for everything I 

could find that would support you on this basis --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  -- and there you are, so I 

want to you add something to explain --

MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I would go back to 
Justice Alito's first question that was posed to Mr. 
Kneedler, which was is this provision has a duty --
because it has an approval requirement; and the answer 
is yes, this Court in Navajo I looked further at IMLA, 
at that specific statute, and concluded that that 
statute overall had a very significant limitation 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

embedded in that duty; and the question is, is there 
anything in the Rehabilitation Act that has that same 
limitation?

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  And my answer to that is no, 

there is nothing in it; and contrary to the overall 
intent of IMLA, which was to guarantee self-sufficiency, 
the overall intent of this statute was to allow the 
Navajo to come somewhere in the area of those standards. 
In addition to that, I do think there are regulations 
that do require the Secretary to invoke a fair market 
value assessment of the rates that are embedded in this 
lease, and that he did not -- he clearly did not do 
that.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Even if you are 
right about the duty-creating aspect, what -- talk a 
little about the money-mandating aspect, the second 
stage of the analysis under Navajo I.

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, I -- I think the key to 

that is -- is sort of two-fold.  One, I think when you 
-- in the absence of some clear statement in this 
statute akin to the one that existed in IMLA, that 
reduces the duty of the United States, that the Court 
ought to then simply examine this against the background 
of the trust principles and say you have a duty; you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

ought to exercise your duty consistent with your role as 
a trustee; and you ought to -- you ought to be acting in 
the best interests of the Navajo Nation.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Before we find a 

waiver of sovereign immunity opening up the Treasury of 
the United States, we usually insist on something a 
little more specific than general trust principles.
 MR. PHILLIPS:  And then the second -- I 
mean, if you are not prepared to accept the general 
trust principles, although, again, they go through the 
context of a specific imposed duty that -- that 635(a) 
has in the first instance.  But even if you want to go 
beyond that, then I go to 635(b) and (c), where Congress 
clearly seems to have in mind the possibility of not 
having liability imposed in certain circumstances and 
yet left 635(a) there without a similar protection for 
the United States, which, again, may not be the 
compelled inference, but it certainly seems to me to 
create a fair inference.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that's not how 

the Secretary reads 635.  Isn't he entitled to Chevron 
deference?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  Well, unless you are saying 
that -- I don't know what context Mr. Chief Justice was 
talking about.  I mean -- but to be sure, lawyers don't 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

want to read it that way because they are in litigation 
right now.  But I don't see anything in the statutory 
scheme or in the regulatory scheme that would say that. 
And certainly, if you go back and look at the 
Secretary's brief, in their analysis of the regulatory 
scheme, the -- let me see if I can find this -- page 25 
to 26, where they point out that there was a gap where 
-- where the Secretary did not exclude mineral leasing 
from the 635 --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  What did Secretary Udall 

think about this?

 MR. PHILLIPS:  He's fully on board, Justice 

Scalia.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. PHILLIPS:  It's not in the brief.
 I'll just conclude with the section (a) 

argument, which is to recognize that the Secretary did 
owe a duty of candor and disclosure embedded in section 
(a).  That program did not end.  That disclosure 
responsibility did not end.  What the measure of damages 
for that breach of duty is a question that obviously is 
still open on remand.  But the notion that the Secretary 
can behave the way the Secretary did in this case, which 
is to know that he was not going to take personal 
jurisdiction over the final decision, command that no 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

decision be made, leave the Navajo in a state of 
distress under those circumstances, force them to 
negotiate with one hand tied behind their back at a 
minimum, and then handed up an agreement that was half 
what the fair market value would have been for the 
quality of coal is an outrage, and the Court ought to 
allow the damages action to go forward.

 If there are no further questions, I urge 

the Court to affirm.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Phillips.

remaining.

 Mr. Kneedler, you have nine minutes 

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  First, Mr. Chief Justice, 

with respect to the text of section 5, it doesn't -- it 
doesn't by any means suggest that it covers mineral 
leases.  The pertinent phrase is that they -- that the 
tribe or members of the tribe "may lease" -- "with the 
approval of the Secretary, may lease for various 
religious, recreational, or business purposes, including 
the development" of utilization -- "or utilization of 
natural resources in connection with the operations 
under those leases." It's not a free-standing mineral 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

lease or resource lease provision.  It says, "including" 
and "in connection with operations under such leases," 
referring back to business leases or the other things 
there.  So I think, on its face, it doesn't suggest it 
covers mineral leases.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, that --
GEN. KNEEDLER:  But --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But it says "the 

development or utilization of natural resources."
 GEN. KNEEDLER:  "In connection with 

operations under such leases."  And -- and what's above, 
a recitation of things that don't include mineral 
leases.  It's educational, recreational, and business 
leases.  And as we explained, there are specific --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, why isn't it a 

public purpose to develop Indian minerals?  That 
benefits the Indians and whole country.

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  It says "business" 

purposes," and as such --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No, it says "public."
 GEN. KNEEDLER:  "For public, religious" --

"public" would be like for a school, if a State was 
going to put a school on or something, but -- but the --
but as we explain in our brief, there was a specific 
reason why Congress enacted this.  There was a gap in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the authority to lease for these types of purposes at 
the time this was enacted.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  And why didn't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, even if -- if I may 

have just one minute, Justice Souter.

 If you get revenue from the natural 
resources, why isn't that a public, religious, 
educational purpose?  They get revenue from leasing.

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  The -- the example would be 

--

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I just -- I just think you 

give too cramped a reading to section 5.

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Well, the example would be, 
if you -- for example, if you were going to use water --
this is a Navajo reservation -- if you needed water for 
a business and sink a well, you would be utilizing or 
developing the natural resources in connection with a 
surface lease.  But -- but the last section of -- the 
last sentence of section 5 says, "Nothing in this 
section shall be construed to repeal or affect the 
authority under other provisions."  And it's the other 
provision that is IMLA.  The regulations --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  May I just supplement 

Justice Kennedy's question?  Why can't the development 
of the mineral leases be regarded as an adjunct to a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

business enterprise?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  I mean business purposes. 

I --

GEN. KNEEDLER:  I -- I suppose they could, 

but in -- in the terminology, mineral leasing, as we 
explain in our brief -- that the categories of leasing 
that are -- have always been handled differently. 
"Mineral leasing" is the term that is used for minerals. 
Business, grazing, farming -- we explain this in our 
brief, that those are different.  The regulations that 
were utilized to implement section 5 had never included 
specific provisions for mineral leases.  They have 
always been under other -- other provisions.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Do the regs specifically 

address the scope of business purposes?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  They -- they -- not beyond 

basically repeating them, but the -- but they, for 
example, talk about rental value, which is not the way 
you describe mineral leases, which are -- which are 
royalties, not rental value.

 If I could also address the argument about 
sections (b) and (c), sections (b) and (c) of this Act 
provide -- first of all, were enacted after section (a), 
so I don't think much of an inference could be drawn. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

But there are situations -- special types of conveyances 
that the tribe was going to make:  One was for fee land 
that it was -- that it was transferring.  There would be 
no reason to think the United States should be liable 
for that, for what it did with the tribe did with its 
own fee land, and Congress wanted to make sure of that. 
The other was that the tribe could convey trust land to 
municipalities and that sort of thing, and what the 
statute says thereafter the United States won't be 
liable.  The United States was just making sure it was 
washing its hands of it.

 Under section (a), we aren't saying that 

there could be no lease under which it could conceivably 
be for a business purpose in which the United States 
could be liable.  If there was a regulation establishing 
a minimum floor and the lease terms went below that, 
then that might be a circumstance in which liability 
could be imposed.

 But otherwise, Justice Breyer is completely 
correct:  This statute on its face imposes no more of a 
duty on the Secretary with respect to the approval of 
whatever leases are covered than IMLA imposed on the 
Secretary with with respect to -- with respect to 
mineral leases.

 And -- and another important point is, as 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

this Court pointed out in the Cotton Petroleum and 
Montana v. Blackfeet Tribe, the IMLA was enacted to 
bring uniformity to mineral leasing.  And the notion 
that Congress would have implicitly wanted to 
specifically carve the Navajo and Hopi out of that 
general authorization and that preexisting set of 
regulations and cover it by -- by a provision like this 
we think is just not consistent with the way Congress 
has dealt with mineral leases over the -- over the 
years.

 I also just wanted to come back to this idea 

of -- of imposing liability on the basis of the common 
law, because the example of what the Federal Circuit did 
in this case, with all respect to that court, we think 
strayed so far from what this Court laid down in Navajo 
I, that it's important for this Court, however it thinks 
it disposed of this case before, to make clear that 
liability cannot be imposed unless, as this Court said 
in Navajo, there is -- there is a specific 
rights-creating or duty-imposing language in the statute 
itself.  The theory that has been adopted in some lower 
courts -- Federal circuit court decisions, which you can 
look at -- a hodgepodge of statutes, one dealing with 
environmental concerns, one dealing with rights-of-way, 
one dealing with this -- add them all up and say the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

United States has control and, therefore, out of that 
sort of bucket of statutes, you can impose trust 
responsibilities.  That's fundamentally inconsistent 
with the Tucker Act, which requires that the liability 
be based on the statutes themselves, and you have to 
look at each statute and each regulation that governs 
the United States in Indian affairs in the same way, 
under the Tucker Act, you would look at the --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  General Kneedler --
GEN. KNEEDLER:  -- United States elsewhere 

to decide whether it was --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Can I ask one question?  I 

probably should have asked earlier.  But there is no 
dispute as the case comes to us.  I know the government 
has taken the position that there was no breach of 
trust.  But do we -- we do have to decide it on the 
assumption that there was a breach of trust that caused 
all this damage?

 GEN. KNEEDLER:  No, no.  I think that's not 

at all correct.  With respect to the approval of the 
lease terms in 1987 -- under a provision that provided 
for "reasonable" lease adjustments, the Secretary 
approved leases negotiated by the tribe at 12.5 percent. 
The tribe entered into two other leases at the very same 
time, although not the subject of this case, for 12.5 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

percent.  That's the standard royalty rate.  And the 
tribe got other benefits from this as a package.  With 
respect to the arguments about what the Secretary did on 
-- on appeal, it's even clearer that all this 
information about the Secretary meeting with Peabody's 
lobbyist, it was before the Court before, and the Court 
found no violation of any statute or regulation.  But 
it's even clearer on remand, as we point out on page 22 
of our reply brief, that the tribe was fully aware that 
the Secretary was not going to -- had -- had said the 
appeal was not going to be acted on and had sent the 
parties back to negotiations.  In fact, when Chairman 
Zah of the tribe opened the negotiations on August 30 of 
1985, he said, "It appears that the Secretary wants us 
to take another shot at negotiating the lease."  He knew 
what --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm not sure that's 
responsive to justice Stevens's question.  I mean, you 
are arguing the merits, but those haven't been decided.
 GEN. KNEEDLER:  Well, what the -- what the 

Court of Federal Claims said along those lines was a 
legal conclusion, not a factual conclusion.  And the --
the facts as described are really what they were before 
when the Court found no violation.

 And -- and as we say, it's clear factually 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

on remand that the tribe knew.  But again, that was just 
-- it's not a factual determination that has to be taken 
as true.  For one thing, it was summary judgment, not 
factual findings.  But it does -- it was just a legal 
conclusion.  And at that, it was the sort of legal 
conclusion drawn from general notions of fiduciary 
responsibility, nothing that has been channeled or 
embodied or codified in a statute or regulation.

 And we think to unleash the law to regulate 

the day-to-day operations of a vast agency, like the 
Interior Department, which has to operate by statutes 
and regulations would be -- under Vermont Yankee and 
this Court's other jurisprudence, would be -- would be 
unwarranted for the courts to do and especially in a 
waiver of sovereign immunity under the -- under the 
Tucker Act to impose damages liability for the violation 
of a procedural regulation.  And, of course, the Court 
pointed out the last time that there was no prohibition 
against ex parte contracts for this sort of informal 
adjudication, as there isn't across -- across the board 
for government -- government activities.

 If there are no further questions --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, general, 

the case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

56


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

acts 8:18 10:11  Alito's 19:22 
add 21:14 43:18 

43:20 

addition 19:8 

52:25 

44:10 

additional 19:6 

19:8 24:13 
25:11 38:16 
39:20 

address 21:1 

33:23 50:16,22 

addressing 6:5 
adjudication 

55:20 

adjunct 49:25 
adjustments 
12:10 53:22 

administration 

9:6 

administrative 
7:22 8:5,7,12 
8:14 9:10 

adopted 7:13 
12:3 40:10 
41:11,12,25 
52:21 

allegedly 3:20 
allow 25:13 

29:10,11 44:8 
47:7 

allowed 12:10 
15:21 20:12 
29:7 

alternative 6:23 

21:1,4 

amended 15:25 
amendments 
3:14 13:24 
14:7 17:10,12 
Americans 20:7 

23:1 26:12 

amount 11:23 
analysis 10:16 
28:17 44:18 
46:5 

analytical 18:16 
analyze 31:12 

analyzing 20:21 

31:13 

21:13 

announced 5:25 

advocate 18:7 
advocated 20:10  annual 23:12 
answer 21:7 
affairs 9:6,12 
24:10 27:19 
41:6 43:22 
44:5 

affect 14:24,25 

49:20 

53:7 

affidavit 39:25 
affirm 47:9 
afresh 42:17 
agency 9:22 

55:10 

30:8 

ago 3:11 13:22 

7:18 

answers 38:1 
anybody 41:17 
anyway 39:3 
appeal 54:4,11 
appeals 6:23 

appear 16:11 
APPEARAN... 

appears 54:14 
appendix 14:23 

1:14 

15:8 

applicable 14:2 
21:23,24 22:2 
application 28:2 

29:23 

applied 11:9 
24:3 29:24 
applies 22:5 

50:22

arguments 5:20

21:2,4 54:3 
Arizona 40:12

25:19,23 26:17  arose 18:11
27:12,16,20,20  arrangement
11:19 36:11
27:22 28:6 
apply 11:25 
39:15
14:13 27:6 
28:21 42:13 
approach 23:4 

articulate 28:5
aside 37:19
asked 24:8

appropriated 

asking 8:16,22

23:17 

32:4 

approval 3:14 
3:24 6:3,14 
11:6,12,18 
14:6 17:6,7 
21:22 23:16 
24:22 34:17 
43:22 47:21 
51:21 53:20 

53:13

27:13

aspect 44:16,17
assessment

44:12

assume 20:19

29:18,20

assuming 29:19
assumption

53:17

approve 11:4,14  attain 20:9

19:24 24:23,24  attributing 31:3
25:1 36:9 

August 54:13
approved 10:25  authority 7:14

13:24,25 17:10 
38:19 40:13,15 
53:23 

arbitrary 9:14 
area 10:12 29:11 

44:9 

argue 42:16 
argued 21:3 
37:14 42:2 

arguing 13:23 
41:19 54:19 
argument 1:12 

2:2,7 3:4,7 
11:21 13:19
19:17 21:16
25:18 26:2
29:19 30:8
31:16,18 33:2 
34:25 37:3
38:2 41:12,13
46:17 47:14

9:23 14:25
15:1 22:21,22
22:24 24:4,19
24:23 25:10
27:3 29:8 30:1 
30:3 35:19
49:1,21

authorization

28:13 52:6

available 42:6
aware 54:9
a.m 1:13 3:2 

55:25

B

b 34:4,24 35:2,3 

35:4,9,11,14
50:23,23

Babbitt 13:22
Babbitt's 14:6
back 26:22

A 

above-entitled 

1:11 56:1 

absence 44:21 
absolutely 5:23 
22:2,21 34:12 
41:5 

abuse 7:19 
academic 10:2 
accept 45:9 
accomplish 33:1 
accurate 16:4 
achieve 30:6 
acknowledged 

38:7 

act 3:16,17,25 

4:19 5:13 6:6,9 
7:1,1,3,13,23 
8:8,12 9:10,18 
10:9,25 11:9 
11:12 13:7,10 
13:20,24 14:11 
14:12,23 15:1 
15:2,12,18,24 
17:16,18,20 
18:3 19:2,23 
20:5 21:2,11 
21:14,15,17,21 
24:17,21 25:6 
25:8,15,17,19 
25:23 26:2,8 
26:24 27:7,10 
29:15,23 30:17 
32:2,20 34:7 
35:25 38:20 
39:23 40:11,13 
41:15 42:11 
44:2 50:23 
53:4,8 55:16 

acted 40:18 

54:11 

acting 1:15 9:23 

45:2 

action 3:13 8:15 

9:11 47:7 

activities 55:21 
activity 32:3 

agree 39:10 
agreement 47:4 
ahead 23:15 
aimed 36:24 
akin 44:22 
ALITO 10:24 
11:8,25 23:19 
24:15 41:13 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

37:10 42:5,18 
43:19 46:4 
47:3 48:3 
52:11 54:12 
background 

44:24 

balance 19:14 
barber 28:10,10 

28:16 

barred 31:4 
based 23:16 

38:4,25 53:5 

basic 22:19 

34:25 

basically 12:24 
14:18 34:16 
36:10 50:18 

basis 4:2 6:17,25 

8:20 11:5 
21:17 40:18 
42:5 43:15 
52:12 

beginning 30:25 
behalf 1:16,18 

2:4,6,9 3:8 
19:18 47:15 
behave 46:23 
believe 32:9 
benefits 48:17 

54:2 

best 12:22 13:3 

13:17 14:4 
45:3 

better 30:5,5 

31:10 

beyond 5:6 6:22 
28:6,23 31:14 
45:13 50:17 

big 22:15 
bit 25:23 
Blackfeet 52:2 
blush 37:24 
board 46:12 

55:20 
body 8:2 
borne 13:4 
borrow 16:15,16 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

carelessness 
20:17 31:4 

CARTER 1:18 

2:5 19:17 
carve 52:5 
case 3:4 4:8 5:10 

circuits 8:10 
circumstance 
42:13 51:17 

common 6:25 

7:9 9:20 18:23 
52:12 

circumstances  Company 40:11 
compelled 45:18 
compensation 

17:14 25:13 
33:21 36:23 
45:15 47:2 

31:1 

7:5 15:6,12 
18:9 31:12 
46:23 52:14,17  cited 42:21 
53:14,25 55:24  citing 29:2 
55:25 

cite 17:9 

bottom 18:7 

41:4 

bound 10:4 
breach 46:21 

53:15,17 

breached 34:9 
Breyer 33:25 
34:7,14,21 
35:2,9,24 37:9 
37:17,21 42:14 
42:25 43:11,17 
44:4 51:19 

brief 5:10 13:23 

14:12 33:7 
36:15,16 38:9 
38:11,18 46:5 
46:15 48:24 
50:7,11 54:9 
briefing 40:11 

40:14 

cases 7:17 8:24 

18:19 
cast 7:12 
catch 26:11 
categories 50:7 
caused 53:17 
ceiling 23:5 
centerpiece 

39:23 

cents 12:7,8,13 

briefs 17:9 
bring 14:21 28:9  certain 16:3 
20:10 22:22 
23:17 32:19 
45:15 

bringing 40:23 
broad 22:20 

40:16 52:3 

29:8 

brought 7:24 
bucket 53:2 
build 28:10 
business 14:18 

22:4 27:21 
29:2 34:18 
39:9 47:22 
48:3,13,18 
49:16 50:1,3 
50:10,16 51:14 

C

c 2:1 3:1 33:16 
34:5,25 35:2,3 
35:4,9,11
45:13 50:23,23

candidly 41:22
candor 46:18
capacity 8:18,19
capricious 9:15
care 26:10

certainly 8:24 

14:9 39:20 
45:18 46:4 
cetera 20:16 
Chairman 54:12 
challenge 8:13 
channeled 55:7 
Chevron 45:21 
Chief 3:3,9 4:6 
10:1 19:15,19 
22:7,11,15 
39:16,25 44:15 
45:4,20,24 
47:10,16 54:17 
55:23 

chose 41:17 
circuit 6:4,16,20 

8:3,6 18:19 
19:1,4 38:3,16 
38:18 41:23 
42:3,7 52:13 
52:22 

complaint 18:11 
completely 

32:17 51:19 

component 36:4 
conceded 19:25 
conceivably 

51:13 

concept 9:2 
concerns 18:10 

52:24 

concession 

38:23 

conclude 19:11 

46:16 

concluded 3:23 
6:2 11:18 20:6 
38:3 43:24 

concludes 5:22 
conclusion 

54:22,22 55:5 
55:6 

condition 23:13 
conditions 13:3 
conferred 7:14 
conflict 26:1,24 
conform 24:9 
Congress 7:3,13 
9:19,22 10:11 
15:1,2 17:22 
23:14 26:9 
29:5,16 32:19 
45:13 48:25 
51:6 52:4,8
congressional

congressionally

9:23 

7:14 

claim 3:12 5:20 
5:21 6:1 7:19 
8:13 30:25 
31:2,4,7,16 
42:22 

claimant 3:17 
claims 7:23 15:8 

34:13 41:24 
42:18 54:21 

clause 12:9 

36:17 

clear 5:24 26:1 

34:12 41:5 
44:21 52:17 
54:25 

clearer 54:4,8 
clearly 20:2 22:5 
24:10,12 33:17 
36:24 44:13 
45:14 
close 4:2 
closely 39:5 
closeness 39:12 
closer 39:13 
coal 6:3,8,14,18 

6:19 11:17 
13:12 17:25 
23:21 40:11 
47:6 

codified 55:8 
come 36:3 44:9 

52:11 

comes 24:21 

36:4,5 53:14 

command 46:25  connection 3:12 
commercial 
6:8 12:9 19:3 
47:24 48:2,10 

14:21 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

49:17 

conscious 31:6 
considerable 

7:12 

consideration 

38:14 

considered 

37:12 

consistent 18:6 

38:15 45:1 
52:8 

constitute 10:5 
Constitution 

7:16 9:24 

construed 14:25 

contained 14:24 

49:20 

30:23 

contemplate 9:6 
context 25:2 
29:13 42:9 
45:11,24 

contingency 

36:19 

continued 14:13 
continues 15:25 

16:1 

continuing 

32:22 

count 28:21 
country 48:17 
course 37:10 

55:17 

court 1:1,12 

3:10,11,13,15 
3:21,23 4:1,10 
4:24 5:1,5,7,9 
5:12,16,17,19 
5:22,24 6:1,23 
7:4 10:15,19 
10:20 11:2,4 
11:14,18,21 
12:15 13:21 
15:4,7 17:3 
18:14,16 19:11 
19:20 20:2,4 
20:21,24 21:1 
21:13 30:14 
31:3,6,12,17 
31:19,20 33:18 
33:19 34:12 
38:13,14 41:10 
41:24 42:18 
43:23 44:23 
47:6,9 52:1,14 
52:15,16,18,22 
54:6,6,21,24 
55:17 

contracts 25:20 

courts 7:18 

28:20 55:19 
contrary 44:6 
control 5:8 6:6  Court's 5:14 

40:12,14 52:22 
55:14 

17:3 18:24 
19:2 53:1 

6:20 7:7 10:14 
20:17 55:13 

controlled 19:12  cover 52:7 

36:10 42:4 
controversy 

18:11 

convey 51:7 
conveyances 

51:1 

correct 26:20 
27:17 51:20 
53:20 

Cotton 52:1 
council 35:19 

covered 13:23 

21:8 29:3 
51:22 

covers 47:18 

48:5 

cramped 49:12 
create 20:1 

35:12,12,22 
36:17 45:19 

creates 34:1,1,3 

35:25 

creating 33:19 

36:4 

D

D 3:1
damage 53:18
damages 3:12
7:10,24 8:21 
9:18,22 46:20 
47:7 55:16

day-to-day 9:5

55:10

dead 32:2
deal 9:8 20:11 

23:18 43:7
dealing 36:22
52:23,24,25
deals 39:8,9,13
dealt 52:9
decide 14:3

24:19 31:20,21
53:11,16

decided 54:19
decision 5:23
18:17 40:1
46:25 47:1

decisions 52:22
declaration

39:21

defense 28:24
deference 45:22
definitely 25:13 
delay 35:11 
demonstrate 

demonstrates 

37:8 

34:5 

Department 
1:16 8:14 
55:11 

depended 38:5 
describe 50:20 
described 54:23 
determination 

9:16 55:2 

determinations 

11:20 

determine 10:21 

31:5 

17:25 

determines 

12:21 

develop 48:16 
developing 

49:17 

development 
22:4,13,17 
25:24 39:10 
47:23 48:9 
49:24 

dichotomy 24:1 
difference 20:3 

22:16 

different 18:7 
23:8 34:22,23 
34:24 36:23,24 
50:11 

differently 50:8 
directed 36:19 
directions 18:10 
disclosure 46:18 

46:19 

disclosures 

34:11 

discovered 

39:18 

41:20 

discretion 7:19 

discussed 4:11 

14:9 

5:12 

dismiss 18:10 
disposed 20:24 

35:18,21 52:17 
disposing 20:22 
disposition

35:22 36:17 

dispositive

15:10 16:22 
dispute 53:14 
distinction 10:2 
26:7 28:5 31:2 
31:6 33:5,14
distinguished 

distress 47:2 
doctrine 8:17,19

8:22 

doing 18:15 
doubt 7:12 
drawn 50:25 

55:6 

durational 

25:12 

duties 7:20 

10:10,11,18
14:16 18:22 
34:4 

duty 11:1,10
17:6 20:1 
21:18,18 26:14 
26:15,17 33:7 
33:8 34:2,5,6,8
34:9 36:8 
43:21 44:1,23
44:25 45:1,11
46:18,21 51:21 

duty-creating

44:16 

duty-imposing

3:19 10:22 
52:20 

E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 25:23
40:18 41:14
53:13

economic 4:13
4:14 6:11,14
19:12 32:3

education 23:9

23:11

educational
48:13 49:8
EDWIN 1:15

2:3,8 3:7 47:14 
effect 15:25 27:4 

27:5 28:15,17

effort 29:6

discovery 38:16  D.C 1:8,16,18

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

either 21:2 
either/or 24:1 

41:10 

emanation 

17:18 

embedded 34:9 
36:9 44:1,12 
46:18 

embodied 55:8 
emphasize 

43:12 

enacted 17:20 

23:9 36:6 
48:25 49:2 
50:24 52:2 

enforceable 8:4 

34:6 

enforced 26:15 
engage 37:1 
engaged 23:2 
ensure 20:8 
enter 29:7 
entered 15:11 
17:13,15 32:6 
43:6 53:24 

entering 24:18 
enterprise 50:1 
enters 43:3 
entire 28:24 
entirety 20:7,7 

36:6 

entitled 45:21 
environmental 

6:7 19:3,8 
52:24 

erase 42:15 
erred 6:23 
error 42:4 
escaping 43:5 
especially 7:9 

ESQ 1:15,18 2:3 

essentially 11:12 

55:14 

2:5,8 

20:10 

establish 10:10 
establishing 

51:15 
et 20:15 
evaluated 20:22 
evidence 9:16 

41:7 

evidently 33:7 
ex 55:19 
exactly 30:16 
examine 20:5 

44:24 

examined 4:8 
example 28:17 
36:16 49:9,13 
49:14 50:19 
52:13 

exception 30:11 
exclude 46:8 
excludes 33:16 
exclusion 37:5 
exclusively 39:6 

41:6 

excuse 4:13 

17:24 

executed 32:2 
executive 9:22 
exercise 45:1 
exist 16:4 27:3 
existed 44:22 
experience 

31:11 

expire 15:24 
expired 30:20 

32:21,24 

explain 25:16 
42:10 43:18 
48:24 50:7,10 
explained 14:12 

48:14 

explains 14:7 
expressly 11:22 

17:12 31:15 
33:16,16 

extending 19:9 
extends 22:22 
extension 15:14 
extraordinary 

31:23 

F 

face 24:8 43:7 
48:4 51:20 

facetious 38:1 
fact 6:15 15:7 
16:20 25:5 
29:22 30:8 
36:5 38:4 39:1 
40:17 54:12 

facts 38:12 

54:23 

factual 18:24 
41:16,19,22 
54:22 55:2,4 
factually 54:25 
fail 5:21 
failed 31:1,7 
fair 13:13,14,16 

33:9,19,20 
35:5 36:12 
37:7 44:11 
45:19 47:5 

false 24:1 
far 6:20 33:3 

52:15 

farming 50:10 
favor 5:20 
February 1:9 
federal 6:4,16 

6:20 7:9,15 8:2 
8:6 9:25 12:16 
15:7 18:19 
19:1,4 31:1 
34:12 38:3,16 
40:16 41:23,24 
42:3,7 52:13 
52:22 54:21 
fee 35:10,17 

36:22 51:2,6 

felt 20:24 
fiduciary 8:4,19 

34:2,4 55:6 
figure 42:21 
final 46:25 
find 4:25 5:1 
43:15 45:4 
46:6 

finding 5:2,3 
findings 15:7 

55:4 

finds 10:19 
first 3:4 10:16 
37:24 38:12 
40:1,2,4 41:24 
41:24 42:19 
43:20 45:12 
47:16 50:24 

floor 23:5 51:16 
focus 40:8 42:11 
focused 41:23 
follow 24:16 
following 32:12 

32:13 

force 47:2 
foreclose 5:23 

6:1 

forget 43:12 
forgetting 16:14 
form 16:7,9 24:9 

41:8 

forms 16:8 
forth 35:5 37:23 
fortiori 6:22 
forward 18:17 

47:7 

found 3:21 4:10 
5:5,17,18 54:7 
54:24 

foundation 8:21 
framework 4:1 

5:24 18:16 
frankly 31:19 
free 16:19 
free-standing 

47:25 

fully 46:12 54:9 
fundamental 

37:22 

fundamentally 

23:8 32:17 
41:9 53:3 
funds 32:4 
further 12:18 

15:14,20 18:6 

19:13 42:8 
43:23 47:8 
55:22 

future 18:20 

G 

G 1:18 2:5 3:1 

19:17 

gap 46:7 48:25 
GEN 1:15 2:3,8 
3:7,9 4:9,16,20 
4:23 7:22 8:6 
8:11,23 10:7 
11:2,11 12:2 
13:8 16:5,9 
18:8 47:14,16 
48:7,10,18,21 
49:9,13 50:2,5 
50:17 53:10,19 
54:20 

general 1:15 3:6 
4:18 5:12 6:10 
6:25 7:7 9:4,14 
9:20 10:8,9 
13:9 14:11 
16:11 17:18,19 
18:4,22 19:15 
22:21 45:7,9 
52:6 53:9 55:6 
55:23 

generally 8:3 

31:12 

geological 13:3 
getting 12:8 

34:15 

Ginsburg 4:15 
4:17,21 18:4 
20:13,19 30:19 
30:22 31:9 
38:6,21 39:2,4 

give 36:14,16 

49:12 

go 12:4 23:15 
26:22 29:9 
31:14 43:19 
45:10,12,13 
46:4 47:7 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

going 13:2,15 
18:12 23:3,4 
24:23,24 26:10

29:8 46:24 
48:23 49:14 
51:2 54:10,11 
good 30:7 40:25 
govern 4:16 
governed 3:25 

6:15 13:19 
14:14 15:5,9 
17:1 18:3 38:8 
41:15 

government 

6:16,24 10:20 
11:14 13:21 
17:3 36:7,25 

helps 43:4 
higher 4:5 11:23 
hodgepodge 

52:23 

hold 15:4 30:25 
holding 6:24 
hope 28:5 
Hopi 6:11 17:21 

22:14 26:9 
27:7,15 32:10 
52:5 

3:20 9:3 20:24  Hopi-Navajo 
31:1,18 32:1 
33:2,23 40:14

43:2 53:14 
55:21,21 

horrible 23:13 

6:9 

governmental 

6:10 

government's 
4:21,24 32:8


governs 6:2 9:12 

53:6 

go-around 

41:25 

grants 22:20 
grazing 50:10 
grew 18:1 
grounds 42:3 
guarantee 44:7 
guess 34:15 43:5 

H 

haircut 28:18 
half 47:4 
hand 31:11 47:3 
handed 47:4 
handled 18:19 

50:8 

hands 51:11 
hands-off 23:3 

23:17 

hard 23:6 
hear 3:3 
held 3:15,16 4:1 

I 
idea 52:11
identified 5:10 

21:19 

IMLA 4:1,12,18 
5:2,4,5,11,18 
6:2,15 10:24 
11:3,13,14,15 
13:6,8,9,20,25 
14:14,17 15:2 
15:6,9,17 16:3 
16:18,25 17:2 
17:4,13,15 
20:5,6,16,22 
23:22 24:2,5 
24:10,20,23 
25:2,11,17,20 
26:3 29:15,21 
30:11,18 31:5 
34:22 38:4,8 
39:1,2,3 41:6,8 
41:11,23,25 
42:1,2,4,6,8 
43:23 44:7,22 
49:22 51:22 
52:2 

IMLA's 4:1 

25:14 

immunity 7:11 

7:12 10:6 45:5 
55:15 

implement 13:9 

36:6 50:12 
implemented 
12:23 14:8 
21:19 36:11 

implication 

32:22 

implicitly 20:3 

52:4 

importance 

31:23 

important 22:25 

28:5 33:5 
51:25 52:16 

imported 29:22 
impose 3:22 

10:11,22 11:1 
14:10 17:5,5,5 
25:2 53:2 
55:16 

imposed 21:18 

33:13 45:11,15 
51:18,22 52:18 

imposes 10:18 
14:15 18:22 
33:6 51:20 

imposing 52:12 
improve 6:11 
inappropriate 

30:9 

include 19:6 
24:5 32:12 
48:12 

included 50:12 
including 5:8 
22:4 26:18 
47:22 48:1 
income 23:13 
inconsistent 

11:19 32:18,25 
53:3 

incorporates 

independent 

16:24 

21:17 

Indian 3:17,25 
7:1,18,21 9:6 
9:12 19:4,6 
20:5,8,9 21:11 
21:14,15 22:5 
34:6 48:16 
53:7 

Indians 6:12 9:5 
12:22 13:4,17 
14:4 22:14 
34:17 48:17 

indicated 10:20 
individual 20:11 
induce 40:20 
inference 33:19 

33:20 34:1

37:7 45:18,19 
50:25 

informal 55:19 
information 
38:17 39:20 
54:5


infrastructure 

17:23 

initial 15:19,22 
insist 4:4 11:23 

instance 36:15 

45:6 

45:12 

instances 21:4 
instructive 
13:18 15:4 

intended 29:17 

intent 37:5 44:7 

31:11 

44:8 

interest 12:22 
13:4,17 14:4 
interests 45:3 
Interior 55:11 
interpretation

21:10 

introduction 

5:12 

invoke 44:11 
involved 26:19 
issue 31:3,5,5,8 

31:20 33:22 
41:19


issued 17:2 
issues 6:7 19:3 

J

joined 13:23 
joint 15:8 
judge 31:10

judgment 13:2

42:18

55:3

judicial 9:13 
jurisdiction 

46:25

jurisprudence

7:8 10:9,14
55:13

justice 1:16 3:3 
3:9 4:6,15,17
4:21 7:17 8:1,9 
8:16 10:1,24
11:8,25 13:6 
16:2,8 18:4 
19:15,19,21 
20:13,19 21:6 
21:21 22:1,7 
22:11,15 23:19 
24:8,15 25:4 
25:16 26:16,21
26:23 27:4,9 
27:14,22 28:7 
28:15,19 29:18 
30:3,7,14,19
30:20,22 31:9 
31:25 33:25
34:7,14,21 
35:2,9,24
36:14 37:3,9 
37:17,21 38:6 
38:21 39:2,4 
39:16,25 40:16 
40:22 41:1,3
41:13 42:14,25
43:11,17,20 
44:4,15 45:4 
45:20,24 46:10 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

46:12 47:10,16 
48:6,8,15,20 
49:3,4,5,11,23 
49:24 50:3,15 
51:19 53:9,12 
54:17,18 55:23 

juxtaposition 

34:4 

K 

KENNEDY 

7:17 8:1,9,16 
36:14 48:6,8 
48:15,20 49:4 
49:11 

Kennedy's 

49:24 

key 26:6 44:19 
kind 20:1 27:25 

31:3 32:18 
37:1,4 

kinds 22:23 

25:19 

Kneedler 1:15 
2:3,8 3:6,7,9 
4:9,16,18,20 
4:23 7:22 8:6 
8:11,23 10:7 
11:2,11 12:2 
13:8 16:5,9 
18:4,8 19:24 
43:21 47:12,14 
47:16 48:7,10 
48:18,21 49:9 
49:13 50:2,5 
50:17 53:9,10 
53:19 54:20 

knew 38:25 

39:16,18 54:15 
55:1 

know 8:2 13:18 
38:10,11 39:20 
40:19 41:5,21 
45:24 46:24 
53:14 

knowledge 8:7 
known 31:2 

L 
laid 52:15 
land 34:18 35:9 

35:17,20,21
41:15 51:2,6,7
lands 7:21 11:17 

28:11 36:7,22
language 15:16 

22:3 34:16
37:22,23 52:20 

largely 38:2
Laughter 40:6

41:2 46:14

law 6:25 7:9 8:2 
8:5 9:21 18:23 
29:10 35:17
52:13 55:9
lawful 23:20
lawyers 45:25
lead 11:16
lease 3:14,24 6:8 

11:7,9,14,24
12:6,8,9 13:19 
13:24 15:5,9
15:11,12,13,16
15:19,21,22,24
16:4,7,9,17,20
16:24,25 17:4 
17:7,9,11,13
17:16,17 18:1 
19:10,24 21:22 
23:22 24:7,8,9
24:9,15,15,19
25:5 26:24
27:6,15,20
28:2,11,19
29:2 32:1,6
34:18 35:3
38:7 39:1,15
39:22 41:6,18
42:1,2 43:6 
44:13 47:20,21
48:1,1 49:1,18 
51:13,16 53:21 
53:22 54:15
leased 23:21
35:18,20 

leases 4:14 6:3 

6:15 10:25 
11:12 12:17 
13:12 14:13,18 
14:20 16:3,12 
16:16,22 19:4 
19:6,12 21:23 
21:25 22:3,4,6 
22:8 25:20 
26:4,18 27:12 
28:6 29:7 37:1 
39:6 41:14 
43:3 47:19,25 
48:2,3,5,11,13 
48:14 49:25 
50:13,20 51:22 
51:24 52:9 
53:23,24 
leasing 3:25 

4:19 6:18,19 
11:16 14:11 
20:5,8 21:11 
21:14,15 22:21 
22:23 23:2 
25:24 27:21 
29:8 32:23 
39:9 46:8 49:8 
50:6,7,9 52:3 

leave 47:1 
left 45:16 
legal 17:11,12 
54:22 55:4,5 
legislation 23:9 
letter 32:2 
let's 29:18 35:10 
liability 3:22 
7:10 10:3,23 
11:6 33:15,17 
35:23 36:18 
37:2,6 43:3 
45:15 51:17 
52:12,18 53:4 
55:16 

liable 3:16 4:25 
5:1,4 6:17,25 
7:2 51:4,10,15 

life 6:11 

limit 25:10 27:3 

35:19

28:1 

limitation 28:9 
32:18 43:25 
44:3 

limitations 

14:10 28:12 
29:1 

limited 4:7,18 

7:8 20:16 
32:13,16 
limits 25:14 

28:20 

line 18:7 41:4 
lines 16:7 54:21 
litigate 7:18 
litigation 5:23 
18:12 38:12 
46:1 

market 13:16
33:9 36:13
44:11 47:5
match 24:11
matter 1:11 7:7 

8:5 56:1

matters 6:7 43:7 
maximizing

12:11

maximum 13:14
mean 9:7 18:2,9 

27:7 35:25
40:3 43:3 45:9 
45:25 50:3
54:18

means 28:16
33:8 47:18

meant 8:9 24:5 
little 25:23 
25:9 32:3,23
measure 46:20
44:17 45:7 
median 23:9
lobbyist 54:6 
long 15:14 29:9  meeting 54:5
long-term 14:20  members 47:20
memory 40:25
look 4:9 9:5 

21:12 23:3,14  merits 54:19
26:7,9 34:24 
35:2 37:22 
40:9 42:19,20 
46:4 52:23 
53:6,8 

mid-1980s 3:15
mid-1980's

mind 29:14

18:12

looked 42:8 
43:14,23 

looking 4:1 5:15 

18:22 20:14 
42:17 
lose 42:1 
lost 40:5 
lot 9:1 27:12 

41:7,8 

lower 12:21 13:2 

52:21 
M

Macrow 21:2
making 51:10
manner 9:9

37:10,22 40:8 
42:15 45:14

mineral 3:14,25

4:19 14:13
20:5,8 21:11 
21:14,15,23,24
22:3,5,6,8,8,10
22:12,23 23:2 
25:24 26:4,18
27:6,15,20
28:2,6 39:6 
41:14 46:8
47:18,25 48:5 
48:12 49:25
50:6,9,13,20
51:24 52:3,9
minerals 15:14

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

48:16 50:9 

minimum 12:4,7 

26:12 

native 20:7 23:1  normal 9:15 
notion 10:15 
30:4 46:22 
52:3 

12:14,20,25,25  natural 22:18 
25:25 47:24 
14:1 23:5,5,17 
25:3 47:4 
48:9 49:6,17 
Navajo 1:6 3:5 
51:16 

notions 18:23 

55:6 

mining 6:6 16:1 

19:1 

minus 6:18 
minute 49:5 
minutes 41:18 

47:12 

missed 26:22 
missing 43:8 
mistaking 18:18 
Mitchell 10:20 

33:20 

mix 24:11 
modified 29:11 

29:12 

33:13 35:12,13
obtained 38:17

13:21 27:1 
35:16 
O
O 2:1 3:1 
obligation 8:4

3:11 5:25 6:11  notwithstandi... 
7:4,4 10:20 
11:3,15 12:15 
13:21 17:3,21 
20:3,4,4 22:14 
23:7,18,21 
24:13 26:9,18 
27:6,16 28:24 
28:25 29:17 
30:4,10,11,12 
30:17 32:4,10 
35:17 39:8 
42:11 43:23 
44:9,18 45:3 
47:1 49:15 
52:5,15,19 
Navajo-Hopi 
39:23 41:15 

obviously 28:25
31:9,22 40:21 
41:22 42:6
46:21

39:19

Office 17:10 
officials 40:17 
Oh 20:18 
Okay 25:16 
28:15 30:7 
42:25 43:7 
44:4 

ought 33:18 

44:24 45:1,2,2 
47:6 

payment 7:15 

9:24 

Peabody 38:7 

outrage 47:6 
outright 18:10 
Peabody's 54:5 
overall 32:10,19  percent 12:7,15 

40:11 

32:25 43:25 
44:6,8 

overdo 28:16 
overreaching 

overstatement 

overwhelming 

29:9 

38:24 

17:15 

12:20 14:2 
53:23 54:1 
perfect 23:14 

25:19 

performs 7:20 
period 32:21 
permit 37:6 
permitted 25:6 

25:7 

personal 46:24 
owe 46:18 
owned 35:10,17  pertinent 4:3,7
owners 35:22 

47:19 

P

P 3:1
package 54:2
page 2:2 5:10 
14:23 36:16
46:6 54:8
pages 15:8
papers 35:16
paragraph

20:14

parallel 16:21
part 17:24 20:17 

23:4 34:11,14
35:23 36:18
43:10

parte 55:19
particular 3:23

8:14 16:20
18:22 25:2
29:11 33:20
particularly
9:17 33:3

parties 16:19
40:9 54:12

petition 14:23 
Petitioner 1:4 
1:17 2:4,9 3:8 
47:15 

Petroleum 52:1 
Phillips 1:18 2:5 

19:16,17,19
20:13,18 21:9 
21:24 22:2,10
22:13,17 23:24 
24:25 25:7 
26:6,20,25
27:11,18 28:4 
28:8,18,23
29:25 30:4,13 
30:16,21 31:9 
31:25 32:8 
34:3,20 35:1,7 
35:14 36:2,21
37:7,16,20,25
38:6,10,24
39:3,7,19 40:2 
40:7,21,25
41:3,21 42:24 
43:9,16,19
44:5,19 45:8 
45:23 46:12,15
47:11 

phrase 47:19 

modify 30:17 
moment 43:4 
moments 30:8 
Monday 1:9 
monetary 10:23  necessarily 
money 7:15,24 
8:21 9:17,21 
9:24 28:21 
36:3 

need 28:18 
needed 20:24 

49:15 

42:13 

33:13 

money-genera...  negotiate 4:5 
11:23 12:24 
23:6 47:3 
negotiated 

money-manda... 

9:20 33:13 
34:5 44:17 

Montana 52:2 
moral 9:4 
motion 6:10 
motive 40:19 
multiple 29:17 
municipalities 

51:8 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
Nation 1:6 3:5 

45:3 

Nation's 3:12 

39:22,22 53:23 

negotiating 

54:15 

negotiation 

16:19 41:17 
negotiations 

20:12 54:12,13 

neither 6:13 
network 5:8 
never 20:18 27:6 

27:16 50:12 
new 42:20,21 
nine 47:12 
Ninth 38:18 

old 42:19,22 
ones 5:9 28:20 
open 46:22 
opened 54:13 
opening 33:24 

45:5 

operate 55:11 
operations 

47:24 48:2,11 
55:10 

operative 20:20 
opinion 5:15 
18:6 21:12 
30:22 

opposition 

36:15 

19:17 

oral 1:11 2:2 3:7  parts 24:2
party 8:13
orange 36:16 
passage 24:6
order 3:15 28:11  paying 15:15

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

place 33:11 
placing 29:21 
plant 28:24 
played 32:5 
please 3:10 

19:20 

plight 17:21 
PNC 36:3,5 
point 15:4,10 
17:8 20:25 
22:19 26:22 
27:14 39:5 
46:7 51:25 
54:8 

pointed 12:15 
52:1 55:18 
political 9:2 
posed 43:20 
posing 31:14 
position 15:6 

23:8,20 24:18 
26:11 30:5 
31:10 53:15 

31:19 

primary 29:21 
principal 5:6 
principles 6:25 
7:12 9:14,15 
9:21 10:3,8,9 
44:25 45:7,10 

prior 5:22 
prism 21:13 
private 35:21 
probably 53:13 
problem 26:5 
procedural 

55:17 

Procedure 7:23 

8:8,12 9:10 
proceedings 

18:6 

produced 15:15 
program 6:10 
32:9,16 34:11 
46:19 

programs 17:24 

provide 7:1,15 

9:24 50:24 

provided 15:12 

25:10 53:21 
provides 11:13 
16:18 21:17 
24:12 25:11 
provision 4:3 

7:6 13:10 
14:12,20 17:16 
18:21 19:5 
25:13 27:2,5 
27:12,16,19 
35:17 38:5 
39:13 43:21 
48:1 49:22 
52:7 53:21 

provisions 4:8 
16:3,11,16,20 
19:7,8,9 20:23 
21:12 24:12,14 
25:1 26:2,3 
28:1 29:10 
33:6 42:9 43:2 
49:21 50:13,14 
public 48:16,20 
48:21,22 49:7 

Q

quality 47:6 
quantities 15:15 
question 4:15,17

4:22,24 5:3 
12:19 19:22,25
20:21 21:9 
24:8 26:23 
27:19 31:13,15
31:21 33:12 
34:15 37:22 
38:13,25 40:3 
41:5,16,22
42:15 43:20 
44:1 46:21 
49:24 53:12 
54:18 

questions 19:13 

47:8 55:22 
quite 19:10 

32:25 

quote 4:2,2
quoting 14:2 

R

R 3:1 
rate 4:5 12:14 
12:16,20,21 
14:2,4 54:1 

rates 3:24 12:10 

33:9 44:12 

read 22:20 24:7 
30:2,24 35:14 
42:12 46:1 
reading 27:7 

49:12 

reads 28:1 45:21 
reaffirmed 5:25 
real 28:21 
reality 40:8 
realize 28:7 
really 10:7 14:7 

29:14 48:25
51:4

reasonable
12:10 33:9
53:22

reasonably 24:3
REBUTTAL

2:7 47:14

recitation 48:12
Reclamation 6:6

19:2

recognition

17:21

recognize 8:1
22:25 31:17
46:17

recognized

30:15

recognizes 8:3
recreational
47:22 48:13
reduces 44:23
reference 16:24

22:8 

referring 48:3 
refers 16:24
regarded 49:25
regs 43:5,11

50:15

regulate 55:9
regulated 26:8
regulation 3:22

4:11 6:7 7:3,13 
9:20 10:18
12:3,12,14,19
13:9 14:3
20:15 51:15
53:6 54:7 55:8 
55:17

regulations

10:12 13:9,25
16:11,25 17:2 
17:4 21:19
26:15 36:11
44:10 49:22
50:11 52:7
55:12

possibility 33:17 

32:12 

45:14 

prohibition 

43:6 

55:18 

projects 32:11 
32:13,14,14 
promulgated 

purely 10:2 
purpose 32:5 
33:1 48:16 
49:8 51:14 

possible 28:2 
precise 15:15 
precisely 29:1 
preclude 27:2 
precluded 42:7 
preexisting 52:6  proper 21:10 
preference 20:8  properties 36:25  purposes 11:17 
premise 5:2 
prepared 45:9 
prescribed 
10:13 13:1 
prescription 
3:19 5:17 

14:18 16:13 
20:21 34:18 
39:9 47:22 
48:19 49:1 
50:3,16 

proposition 11:5 

property 13:14 

proposed 15:7 

pursuant 7:14 

24:2 41:11 

16:13 37:1 

19:7 

propriety 17:11 
protect 26:10 

29:8 

9:23 38:19 
40:10,15 
push 38:2 

protection 24:13  put 8:24 14:19 

presented 4:18 
4:22,24 20:22 
21:10 31:14,15 
31:21 

presumably 

12:1 

pretty 26:1 
prevail 42:5 
pre-decided 

26:14,17 45:16 

protections 

25:12 29:17 
32:24 

protective 29:5 

16:16,19 17:23 
18:17 26:11 
33:22 37:18 
48:23 

16:22 17:14 
28:21 34:24 
38:22 42:14 
54:23 

reason 7:4 28:13 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

regulatory 3:19 

4:3 5:17 7:6 
18:21 46:3,5 
Rehab 15:23 
25:17,19,23 
26:2,24 29:23 

rehabilitate 

6:10 

rehabilitation 

remember 

22:12 38:18 
renegotiated 
11:24 12:9 
renegotiation 

12:5 

rental 13:13,14 
13:14 50:19,21 

repeal 14:25 

35:15 

49:20 

reply 54:9 
reproduced 

5:13 6:9 10:25 
repealed 32:19 
11:9,12 13:7 
repeated 15:16 
13:10,20,24 
14:11 15:12,18  repeating 50:18 
17:16,18,20 
18:3 19:23 
21:2,17,21 
23:23 24:17,21  require 13:13 
19:23 36:12 
25:6,8,14 26:8 
27:10 29:15 
44:11 
30:17 32:2,10 
38:20 39:23 
40:11,13 41:15  requirement 
10:17 43:22 
44:2 
requirements 
21:22 24:16 
requires 34:10 

required 4:4 

11:5,22 

11:22 

reiterate 18:16 
rejected 3:11 

related 16:12 
relationship 9:8 

36:1,3,5 

36:9 53:4 

requiring 18:20 
reservation 

relevant 3:21 

14:21 23:10,21 
28:25 32:4 
39:8,14 49:15 

4:7,11 5:11,18 
10:15,21 20:15 
20:20 21:7,9 
25:17 30:24 
reliance 42:8 
relied 6:4 19:1,4  resources 17:22 
religious 47:22 

reserve 19:14 
resource 25:25 

48:1 

48:21 49:7 
rely 5:9 17:19 

43:12 

remaining 47:13 
remand 6:4,16 
38:15 39:18 
46:22 54:8 
55:1 

remanded 18:5 

38:14 

respect 7:20 

11:3 14:11,16 
17:6 24:17 
26:3 27:8,14 
27:15 30:19 
43:1 47:17 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

51:21,23,23 
52:14 53:20 
54:3 

Respondent 

1:19 2:6 19:18 
response 12:19 
responsibilities 

9:1 53:3 

responsibility 
9:4,7 20:11 
29:21 30:10,11 
46:20 55:7 
responsible 

11:16 

responsive 

54:18 

restricting 29:9 
revenue 49:6,8 
revenues 12:12 
reversed 18:9 
review 9:13 
17:11,12 

right 22:22 27:7 

27:18 28:25 
29:25 30:16 
34:19,20 35:1 
35:6 37:25 
38:13 42:24 
43:16 44:16 
46:2 

rights 10:18 

41:14 

rights-creating 

3:18 34:6 
52:20 

rights-of-way 

ROBERTS 3:3 
4:6 10:1 19:15 
22:7,11,15 
39:16,25 44:15 
45:4,20 47:10 
54:17 55:23 
role 7:8 45:1 
round 38:12 

royalties 13:11 
13:12 50:21 

royalty 3:24 6:3 
12:14,16 14:1 
14:4,16 54:1 

rule 24:6 
run-of-the-mill 

23:1 

S

S 1:15 2:1,3,8 
3:1,7 47:14 

sale 36:21
saving 27:25
saying 8:20

22:12,20 25:22 
27:5,16,24
28:3 31:4
33:25 34:15,24
35:12 38:22
45:23 51:12

says 12:14 14:23 

16:2 17:12
19:5 20:14
21:14 22:11,24
24:4 25:9 27:1 
28:17 30:25
32:1,12 34:16 
34:19 35:3,16
38:19 40:10
48:1,8,18,20
49:19 51:9

Scalia 13:6 16:2 

16:8 21:6,21
22:1 24:8 25:4 
27:9 30:20
31:25 40:16,22
41:1,3 46:10 
46:13

Scalia's 26:23
scheme 14:8

46:3,3,6

school 48:22,23
scope 25:17

31:22 50:16

second 10:16,19

16:14 18:13

33:4 44:17 
45:8 

second-guess 

11:20 

secretary 4:4 

7:19,20 8:4,18 
8:25 10:4,11 
10:12 11:1,1,3 
11:13,16,19,20
11:22,25 12:2 
12:12,13,21,23
13:1,22 14:6,7 
16:15 17:6 
19:5,24 23:16 
24:22,22,25
29:22 34:9,17
36:9,12 40:9 
40:19 44:11 
45:21 46:8,10
46:17,22,23
47:21 51:21,23 
53:22 54:3,5
54:10,14

Secretary's 3:13 

10:10 11:6,10
13:1 14:9 
21:20 33:7 
46:5 

section 11:11 

14:15,17,22,24
15:2,18 17:1 
19:22 21:16 
22:20 23:23 
24:3,6,16,24
25:9 26:25 
27:1,20,25
28:6,12 29:6 
31:22,23,24
32:24 34:9 
41:12 46:16,18
47:17 49:12,18
49:19,20 50:12 
50:24 51:12 
sections 32:20 

32:20 50:23,23
see 29:25 35:10 
37:10 46:2,6 

52:24 

17:25 22:5,9 
22:10,11,12,14  right-creating 
22:18 23:12 
39:10 47:24 
48:9 49:7,17 

38:5 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

STEVENS 53:9 

42:22 

sense 9:3,4 23:2 

sorry 22:7,17 

state 35:20 47:1 

seeks 17:19 
seen 21:3 
self 20:10 
self-sufficiency 

30:6 44:7 

23:14 25:19 
39:11 

sensible 29:16 
sent 42:5 54:11 
sentence 14:22 

25:8 27:25 
29:13 49:19 

Solicitor 1:15 

22:21 

12:1,16 16:3 
36:13 54:1 

Solicitor's 17:10  standards 44:9 
somebody 14:20  start 19:21 

37:17 

27:10,11 30:6 
30:21 35:10 

sort 13:15 15:21 
17:23 18:24,24 
33:5 44:20 
51:8 53:2 55:5 
55:19 

37:12 

48:22 

stated 7:4 
statement 30:23 
38:11 40:5,22 
44:21 

statements 41:9 
states 1:1,3,12 

53:12 

Stevens's 54:18 
stimulate 32:3 
stood 40:4 
straight 42:17 
strange 27:24 

strayed 6:20 

40:18 

52:15 

stress 29:20 
stretch 19:10 
stronger 37:11 

suppose 50:5 
Supreme 1:1,12 
sure 21:3 30:13 

33:8 43:9 
45:25 51:6,10 
54:17 

surely 4:7 
surface 6:5 

14:17,18,21 
19:1 49:18 
suspect 33:24 
suspicion 37:13 

37:19 42:16 
sustain 9:16 

T

T 2:1,1
table 33:23 
take 11:16 20:12 

23:3 26:10
33:4 46:24
54:15 

taken 29:19 
53:15 55:2 

takes 9:12
talk 8:24 13:11 

13:13 33:4
44:16 50:19 

talked 10:2 
talking 7:10
36:23 45:25

talks 39:6 
teachings 6:21 
tell 34:22 
telling 13:11 
temporal 33:2 
tendency 40:7 
term 15:13,19 

15:20,22 20:20 
24:17 25:5 
26:2,3 27:16 
28:1,20 50:9 

terminology

50:6 

terms 4:14 6:3 

6:14 10:2

separately 41:12  Souter 25:16 
series 32:11 
serious 17:22 
serves 5:15 
set 6:9 10:4 23:4 
32:14 36:23,24 
52:6 

26:16,21 27:4 
27:14,22 28:7 
28:15,19 29:18 
30:3,7,14 37:3 
49:3,5,23 50:3 
50:15 

sets 33:7 
shop 28:10,10 

28:17 

short 17:19 
shot 54:15 
shows 6:19 

15:16 
side 16:2 
significant 

12:18 16:23 
43:25 

similar 13:10 
35:20 45:16 
simple 35:17 

36:22 

simply 5:20 9:7 

10:5 31:15 
37:4 44:24 

sink 49:16 
site 27:21 
situated 35:20 
situations 51:1 
six 3:11 13:21 
slightly 43:4 
sold 35:18,21 
sole 35:18 
solely 23:22,25 

sovereign 7:11 
7:11 10:6 45:5 
55:15 

space 28:11 
special 9:8 26:10 
26:14,14,16,17 
51:1 

specific 3:18 

5:16 7:5 10:17 
10:22 14:15 
18:21 22:8 
31:13 36:8 
39:14,14 43:24 
45:7,11 48:14 
48:24 50:13 
52:19 

specifically 11:3 

11:4 14:1 
19:23 20:6 
24:4 25:9 
38:19 39:8,21 
40:10,12 42:7 
50:15 52:5 
specify 3:17 
stage 10:16,16 
10:19 44:18 
standard 10:4 

37:13,23 

3:4,16,23 4:25 
5:1,4,7 6:16,24  structure 5:14 
studies 17:25 
7:2 9:3,7,11 
10:23 12:17,19  study 17:22 
subject 9:13 
35:23 36:18 
11:17 15:14 
38:18 40:14 
44:23 45:6,17 
28:12 29:1 
51:4,9,10,14 
53:25 
53:1,7,10 

subjects 6:5 

56:1 

statute 3:22 4:11  submission 5:7 
submitted 55:24 

substantial 9:15 
suddenly 42:11 
suffice 9:21 
sufficiency 

5:11 6:2,18 
9:12,20 10:18 
14:10 19:9 
20:15 22:3 
25:11 30:24 
32:12,19,21 
34:10 36:6,15 
37:11,12,13,18  sufficient 8:21 
39:4 41:16 
33:18 38:4 
42:12,20,20,21  suggest 18:9 
43:24,25 44:8 
47:18 48:4 
44:22 51:9,20 
52:20 53:6 
54:7 55:8 

suggesting 10:3 
suggests 33:17 

20:10 

41:7 

statutes 4:12 5:8  suit 9:17 

6:5,13,17 
10:22 16:12 
24:4 52:23 
53:2,5 55:11 
statutory 3:19 
4:3,8 5:17 7:6 
14:8 18:21 
46:2 

stemming 11:6 

summary 55:3 
superficial 

39:12 

superseded 24:5 
supervision 35:5 
supplement 

49:23 

support 43:15 
supportive 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

14:16,16 19:12 
31:13 51:16 
53:21 

test 41:25 
testify 40:17 
text 47:17 
textual 4:2 

15:10 

Thank 19:15,19 

37:9 47:10 
55:23 

theory 11:15 

52:21 

thing 12:11 

13:15 16:6,23 
17:23 18:25 
34:11 42:19 
51:8 55:3 
things 4:23 

16:21 34:18 
48:3,12 

think 4:9 5:14 

5:24 6:22 8:15 
8:15 10:7 
13:11,18 14:5 
14:8 15:3,3 
16:6,6,10,22 
17:14 18:15 
19:21 20:2,16 
20:19,19 22:16 
23:24,25 24:1 
24:2,6,7,25 
25:7 26:6 29:5 
29:19 30:1 
31:6,19 33:1,5 
33:7 35:15 
37:7,13 42:17 
44:10,19,20 
46:11 48:4 
49:11 50:25 
51:4 52:8,14 
53:19 55:9 
thinks 52:16 
thought 17:1 
25:22 35:11 
37:17 38:21 
39:1 41:13 

threshold 3:18 
10:17 18:20 
thrust 30:9,12 
tied 47:3 
time 12:5,5,13 
14:19 15:5,25 
17:9 18:5,5,7 
18:13,17 19:14 
25:3,11,14 
28:8,12 30:9 
30:23 32:1,6 
32:15,18 37:14 
38:2,3,7,9,25 
40:1,2,4,23 
41:17 42:17 
49:2 53:25 
55:18 

today 3:4 40:19 
ton 12:7,8,13 
transferring 

51:3 

Treasury 7:16 

9:25 45:5 

treaties 9:4 36:7 
tribal 11:17 

12:16 35:19 
tribe 4:4 5:15 

11:17,23 12:4 
12:7,24 16:15 
17:19 19:7 
23:13 24:19 
28:24 30:5 
47:20,20 51:2 
51:5,7 52:2 
53:23,24 54:2 
54:9,13 55:1 
tribes 7:18 20:9 

20:12 23:15 
25:12 27:8,23 
28:3 29:21 

tribe's 3:14,24 
5:6,20 12:11 
12:12 15:6 
17:25 30:25 
tried 42:9,15 
trivial 28:19 

29:2 

true 23:1 55:3 
trust 8:25 9:6 
10:3,8,9,15 
35:13,25 36:2 
36:5,8,10 
44:25 45:7,10 
51:7 53:2,16 
53:17 

5:1,4,7 6:16,24 
7:2 9:3,7,11 
10:23 12:17 
35:23 36:18 
38:18 40:13 
44:23 45:6,17 
51:4,9,10,14 
53:1,7,10 

45:2 

trustee 8:18,19 

unlawful 16:13 
unleash 55:9 
truth 34:22 39:1  unreasonable 
try 26:10 29:14 

29:4 

trying 37:10 

42:20 

42:10 

Tucker 3:16,17 

55:14 

urge 47:8 

7:1,1 9:18 10:9  use 25:14 31:16 
34:7 53:4,8 
55:16 

49:14 

turn 10:22 
two 4:23 5:11 
6:4,17 20:23 
21:12 27:8,23 
28:3 31:20 
33:20 37:25 
38:1 43:1 
53:24 

two-fold 44:20 
type 39:14 
types 49:1 51:1 

U 

Udall 39:21 

users 14:18 
usual 7:11 
usually 45:6 
utilization 22:18 
47:23,23 48:9 

utilized 50:12 
utilizing 49:16 

V

v 1:5 3:4 52:2 
value 13:16 33:9 

35:6 36:13
44:12 47:5
50:19,21

various 47:21

40:10,19 46:10  vast 55:10

understand 21:6  venture 14:21
Vermont 55:12
27:18 40:23 
41:4 42:9 43:9  view 6:19 41:10 

undertook 

17:22 

undisputed 

38:12 

unearthed 41:20 
unfortunately 

35:15 

uniformity 52:3 
United 1:1,3,12
3:4,16,22 4:25 

viewed 33:18
violated 3:20
violation 5:2,3,5
5:16,19 7:2,5 
9:19 10:23
33:10 54:7,24
55:16

W

waiver 7:11 10:5 

unusual 16:15 
unwarranted  Washington 1:8 

washing 51:11 

45:5 55:15 

want 8:2 23:6,15 
24:20,20 28:10 
28:11,16 35:11 
43:12,18 45:12 
46:1 

wanted 14:20 
18:25 51:6 
52:4,11 

wants 54:14 
warrant 3:21 
4:10 20:15 

1:16,18 

wasn't 17:2 

20:16 37:16 
water 49:14,15 
way 4:9 5:15 
7:19 8:23 
12:22,23 14:7 
18:2,18 28:23 
29:12 32:17 
46:1,23 50:19 
52:8 53:7 

ways 9:1 
weaker 37:18 
went 14:5 20:4 

38:15 42:3 
51:16 

we've 14:12 
wholly 21:17 
won 40:3 42:3 
wonder 37:15 
word 31:7,16
words 38:8 
42:19,20

works 12:22 
wouldn't 15:20 

16:14 

wrong 32:7,8

38:22 
X

x 1:2,7

Y

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

9 

9 32:20 

2 10:20 20:4 
Yankee 55:12 
20 27:13 
Yeah 32:8 
year 23:10,12 
2009 1:9 
years 3:11 13:22  22 54:8 
15:13,19,20,22  23 1:9 
15:23 28:9,9 
32:24 40:17,24 
40:24 52:10 

46:6 
26 46:7 

25 15:19,20,23 

Z 
Zah 54:13 
$ 

$400 23:12 

0 

07-1410 1:5 3:4 

3 

3 2:4 
30 5:10 54:13 
37.5 12:8 
4 
40 40:24 
47 2:9 

1 

5 

1 5:25 7:5 11:15  5 11:11 14:15,17 
12:15 13:21 
14:22,24 15:18 
17:3 20:3,4 
17:1 19:22 
10 12:7,7,13 
21:16 22:20 
23:23 24:3,6 
24:16,24 25:9 
27:1,20,25
28:6,12 29:6 
31:22,23 32:24 
36:16 47:17 
49:12,19 50:12 

15:13,22 27:13 
27:13 28:9,9 
32:20,24 

10-cent 25:3 
10-year 32:21 
10:04 1:13 3:2 
11:04 55:25 
12.5 12:15,20 

524 15:8 
525 15:8 
6 

634(a) 33:6 
635 33:6 45:21 

46:9 

635(a) 33:15,17 

34:1,3,16 
45:11,16 

635(b) 33:15 

45:13 

635(c) 34:1 

14:2 53:23,25 

162 26:15 
171a 14:23 
19 2:6 
1938 3:25 
1950 6:9 14:14 

17:20 23:8 
30:17 39:24 

1984 12:6 
1985 54:14 
1987 12:6,6 

17:10 53:21 

1993 18:13 
1999 13:22,25 

15:24 

2 

8 

8 31:24 34:10 

41:12 

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

