Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
JESSE JAY MONTEJO, 
:
              
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 07-1529 
 v. 
                       
LOUISIANA. 
: 
                      
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 Washington, D.C.
 Tuesday, January 13, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:14 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on

 behalf of the Petitioner. 

KATHRYN W. LANDRY, ESQ., Baton Rouge, La.; on behalf

 of the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


KATHRYN W. LANDRY, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

26


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

53


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:14 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument first this morning in Case 07-1529, Montejo v. 
Louisiana.

 Mr. Verrilli.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. VERRILLI:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The question in this case is whether 

Petitioner Montejo should be denied the Sixth Amendment 
protections of Michigan v. Jackson because he silently 
acquiesced in the appointment of counsel at his initial 
hearing, rather than affirmatively accepting the 
appointment.  The Louisiana Supreme Court believed that 
an affirmative acceptance was required to trigger 
Jackson and therefore upheld the admission of a 
confession elicited during police-initiated 
interrogation after Montejo's Sixth Amendment right had 
attached and after a lawyer had been appointed to 
represent him.

 If Jackson applies, that confession should 

not have been admitted, and Jackson should apply because 
nothing in this Court's precedents or, frankly, in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

common sense supports a rule that affords less Sixth 
Amendment protection to defendants who are automatically 
appointed counsel at initial hearings than to defendants 
who are appointed counsel after a request for 
counsel has --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I thought that the 

rationale of Jackson was that the confession is simply 
deemed to be coerced if the defendant has expressed --
has expressed -- his desire to have counsel present or 
even to be represented by counsel.  It isn't clear that, 
which is already a stretch, to assume that simply 
because I said, you know, I would like to have counsel, 
if the police continue to say, well, come on, won't you 
talk to us -- it's already a stretch to say it's 
automatically coerced.

 But now you're saying, even if the defendant 

has never expressed even a desire to be represented by 
counsel but has simply had counsel appointed, in fact 
even if he doesn't know about the appointment of 
counsel, the -- his confession is automatically deemed 
to be coerced.  That seems to me quite, even more 
extravagant than Jackson.

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, I don't -- without 

taking up at the moment the question whether Jackson was 
extravagant, it does seem to me, Your Honor, that your 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

question does get to the heart of the matter.  In a 
situation like Jackson, the defendant requested counsel 
and that was deemed to be an election of the right to 
rely on counsel, not merely at the initial hearing but 
for all purposes.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Right.  Right.  What has he 

elected here?

 MR. VERRILLI:  And the question here, it 
seems to me, Your Honor, is what does one do when a 
defendant is automatically appointed counsel?  There are 
two options:  One is to treat that defendant as having 
elected the right to rely on counsel, and --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why?  Why would one do 

that?

 MR. VERRILLI:  And the other option is to 

deem that the defendant has decided to go it alone. 
Those are the two possibilities here, and it seems to me 
that --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry to 

interrupt, but isn't there a third, which is that you 
just don't assume anything and you wait to see if he 
makes -- says, "I want to talk to my lawyer," or he 
could well say, "You've told me," as was the case here, 
"I have a right to a lawyer, I don't have to say 
anything, I want to talk some more, I don't -- okay, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there's a lawyer, fine, I want to talk without my 
lawyer, I want to waive my right to counsel."  Which he 
can do.

 MR. VERRILLI:  I think the problem, Mr. 
Chief Justice, is that in the -- it is an either/or 
choice because, if you -- if the defendant is deemed to 
have elected to rely on counsel on the basis of the 
appointment, then the police may not initiate 
interrogation.  It's only if the defendant --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Right.  If you 

prevail and you say silence constitutes saying "I want 
to talk to my lawyer," that's right.  I'm saying that's 
a false, a false alternative.

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, I don't think so.  I 

think if the police initiate interrogation after a 
lawyer has been automatically appointed, then that 
interrogation either has to be deemed to be in violation 
of the rule of Jackson or not, and that seems to me to 
depend on how you characterize what happens in the 
course of an automatic appointment.  If you --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Verrilli, the 

defendant himself could say, "Police, I'd like to talk 
to you."  That would be okay.  But this is police 
initiation.

 MR. VERRILLI:  That's absolutely the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

critical point, Justice Ginsburg.  This is a limited 
rule, and the free choice of the defendant to initiate a 
conversation with the authorities is always present. 
The question is, what do we do in an automatic 
appointment situation?  And this is a significant 
question because -- and I would refer the Court to the 
appendix, to the amicus brief of the National Legal Aid 
and Defender Association, which I think is a helpful 
reference here.  It goes through each State, and what it 
shows is that approximately half the States have 
procedures in which, as a matter of course, the 
defendant is asked at the hearing whether he or she 
wants counsel, and if the defendant says yes, then we're 
in a Jackson situation.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I just want to make sure I 

understood your answer to Justice Ginsburg's question. 
Assume a lawyer is appointed.  The defendant says, "Yes, 
I want my lawyer."  He's in the jail cell.  The 
policeman walks by, he says, "I have a lawyer, but I 
want to talk to you now."  Can the police talk to him?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Yes, if he initiates. 

Initiation is the key.  Initiation --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  All right.  Well, then it 
seems to me that the Miranda protections give you all --
or, the Miranda rules give you all the protection you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

need.

 MR. VERRILLI:  I don't think so, Justice 

Kennedy.  A couple things.  First of all, it seems to me 
that to reach that conclusion that the Court really 
would have to overrule what is a key holding in Jackson, 
and I don't think that that would be appropriate to do 
in this case for a whole host of reasons.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, I'm wondering if 

there is some further rule, could the prosecutor talk to 
the defendant if the defendant was in the cell and the 
prosecutor walked by, saying, "I know you have an 
attorney, but I would like to talk to you"?  Could the 
prosecutor do that consistently with the Sixth 
Amendment?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Yes.  It depends on 

initiation.  It depends on who initiates.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Really?  The lawyer --
MR. VERRILLI:  If the defendant --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  The lawyer can talk to a 

client for another lawyer?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, if the -- if the 

defendant initiates, then the defendant is -- then the 
bar of Jackson doesn't apply.  That's the rule, but the 
--

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, again, if that's --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

if that's the principle that you're operating on and 
that you'd concede, then I think the Miranda warnings 
would suffice to give all the protection you need.

 MR. VERRILLI:  I don't -- apart from the 
question of whether you can reach that result without 
overruling the core holding of Jackson here, it does 
seem to me, with all due respect, we don't agree with 
that because, on the one hand, we do think that free 
choice is preserved in the existing regime and, on the 
other, hand we don't think Miranda can give you all the 
protection you need.

 And I think a good illustration of that is 

this Court's decision in the Moran case.  Now, recall in 
Moran, that was an interrogation that occurred before 
the defendant's Sixth Amendment rights had attached, and 
the -- and the police -- and the defendant had a lawyer 
in that case.  His sister had hired a lawyer for him. 
The lawyer was trying to reach him.  The police kept him 
away, kept the lawyer away from the defendant.  The 
Court held that, in the Fifth Amendment context, because 
the Sixth Amendment right had not attached, that the 
Miranda warnings sufficed to guarantee the reliability 
of the confession.

 But the Court was very quick to point out, 

and then reiterated this again in Patterson, that in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Sixth Amendment context that would be a violation 
because it's an interference with the relationship 
between the defendant and his lawyer, and the ability of 
the defendant to rely on the lawyer.  And that's the 
key.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  It is that, whether or not 
the defendant initiates the contact.  I mean, in civil 
matters, it's contrary to the ethics of the bar to 
interrogate the party on the other side when you know he 
has a lawyer, and that would be the case even if he 
initiated it.  You wouldn't think of negotiating with 
him without consulting the other lawyer, saying, "Can I 
talk to your client?"  So that doesn't stretch over to 
this, to this situation.

 We're not applying bar ethical rules.  We're 

applying, supposedly, a rule that determines when a 
confession is coerced.  All right?  That's what we're 
doing here.

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, what the -- we're 

applying -- the question here is whether defendants in 
this category, the category that Mr. Montejo is in, 
automatic appointment, are entitled to the same Sixth 
Amendment protection as defendants who are in the 
category of -- who are brought to trial in States where 
they -- you have this colloquy as part of the initial 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

hearing where the defendant is asked.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why couldn't we solve your 

practical problem that we don't know in many States 
whether the defendant accepted appointment or not, by 
simply saying it is not enough to simply accept 
appointment of counsel; you must have requested counsel. 
To merely say, "Oh, that's great, you appointed me 
counsel" --

MR. VERRILLI:  Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  You must have requested it. 
And that would be in accord with the holding of Michigan 
v. Jackson and would solve all of your -- all of your 
practical problems.

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, two things, Your Honor. 

First, it seems to me that what the dispute here is is 
whether there is a principled basis for treating these 
two categories of defendants differently, the defendants 
who are brought to hearings in States where the 
procedures require that they be asked and defendants who 
are brought to hearing in States where they are 
automatically appointed counsel without a showing of 
indigency -- upon a showing of indigency.  And I don't 
-- I think with respect to the question of practical 
problems going forward, sure, if all States -- if the 
States in that second category were to conform their 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

practices such that the defendants were asked and had 
the opportunity to say yes, indeed, I want counsel, then 
I suppose the problem would be solved.  But you really 
get to the same place by holding, as we submit the Court 
really should hold, that when -- when you have an 
automatic appointment, unless there is some reason to 
think the defendant is rejecting it, that Jackson kicks 
in and that --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  What happens under Michigan 

v. Jackson if I have never requested counsel?  I've 
never asked the court to appoint counsel, but I've gone 
out and hired counsel of my own, right?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Sure.  I think it's quite 

clear that the rule of Michigan against Jackson applies, 
and that's because --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is it clear from Michigan 

v. Jackson itself, or --

MR. VERRILLI:  Well, from cases applying it, 
because in that situation the person is deemed to assert 
the right to counsel by hiring a lawyer, just as by 
asking, and the question here is when you have an 
automatic appointment why should you treat that category 
of defendants any differently for purposes of applying 
the Jackson rule?

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Verrilli, do I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

understand correctly that the scenario here was the 
defendant, uncounseled, was taken before a judicial 
officer who read him rather standard information, one 
piece of information was, I'm appointing a lawyer for 
you?  Was there any opportunity for the defendant to say 
anything at that hearing?

 MR. VERRILLI:  And that's the whole problem 

here, Justice Ginsburg.  All we have is a one-page 
minute order which reflects that counsel was appointed. 
It doesn't reflect anything about a colloquy because in 
the normal course there's not -- there's no occasion for 
the colloquy.  You come in, you get your lawyer, a 
decision about bail is made, and you move on, and the 
next person comes in and that happens.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  He didn't get -- he 

didn't in fact get a lawyer.  I thought he was told that 
the public defender --

MR. VERRILLI:  The Office of Indigent 

Counsel is appointed to represents you.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Right, and the actual 

lawyer didn't show up until later.

 MR. VERRILLI:  Right.  The way the process 

works is -- it's not in the record, but the way the 
process works in this judicial district is there is a 
legal assistant there who takes the names of people who 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

need lawyers and then immediately -- and the public 
defender service in this district is a contract service. 
They're private attorneys who contract out to do it. 
And then the legal assistant immediately calls, tells 
the lawyers, well, here is who you are representing.
 Now, in a case like this one, which is a 

capital case, there was of course a great sense of 
urgency.  There are only two lawyers in this district 
who are qualified to represent capital defendants.  They 
got called immediately.  Recall what happened here was 
that this hearing took place in the morning and Mr. 
Montejo gets taken back to the jail and very soon after 
he arrives he gets checked back out by these officers 
again and taken out in the squad car where he is kept 
for six hours, and in the meantime essentially while 
he's going out the back door, while he's being taken out 
the back door with the police, his lawyer is coming in 
the front door and raising holy heck about the fact that 
his client's not --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but the rule 

you're asking for would apply across the board.  How 
would it apply in a case where the defendant is given 
Miranda warnings, says, thank you, I don't want to talk 
to my lawyer, I want to talk to you.  He's talking to 
the police.  All of a sudden they bring a note in and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

say:  They've appointed a lawyer.  The police says:  I 
just got a note; you've been appointed a lawyer.  Do you 
want to keep talking?

 You would say that's a violation, right? 

And then he says yes and continues to talk.

 MR. VERRILLI:  If the police initiated the 

interrogation, yes, because I think it gets to the heart 
of the --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That's a violation, 
even though he knows that if he wanted a lawyer he could 
request one, he knows one's been appointed for him, and 
he's been warned that if he doesn't want to talk without 
a lawyer he doesn't have to, and he's in the middle of a 
conversation that he initiated, and the police says, do 
you want to keep talking?  That's a violation?

 MR. VERRILLI:  I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice. 

If the defendant initiated the conversation --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Early on, before the 
lawyer was appointed, he's given Miranda warnings and he 
says:  I want to talk.  He's talking.  They say:  Now, 
we just got the word; a lawyer has been appointed; do 
you want to keep talking?  He says yes.  That's a 
violation?

 MR. VERRILLI:  If the police initiated the 

interrogation, it's a violation. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I'm trying to 
-- which stage are you talking about, before the lawyer 
was appointed or after?  I'm telling you before he was 
appointed, the police did not initiate the conversation. 
They told him he didn't have to talk.  He says:  I want 
to talk.  Now, you're saying it counts as initiating the 
interrogation if they say:  You've got a lawyer; do you 
want to keep talking?

 MR. VERRILLI:  No, I think that in that 

situation the defendant has initiated and then you've 
got the kind of free choice that the law respects, and 
that's where the line is drawn here.  But that is --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How is he -- where 
is the initiation?  Is it when he says, yes, I want to 
keep talking, after being told -- asked do you want to 
keep talking?  Or is it way back at the beginning?

 MR. VERRILLI:  It's at the outset.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  At the outset.
 MR. VERRILLI:  At the outset, it seems to 

me.  He has initiated.  He exercises free choice.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Isn't that what 

happened here?  He had been given his Miranda warnings, 
right?

 MR. VERRILLI:  No, it isn't what happened 

here at all.  In fact, it seems to me the opposite, the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

opposite thing happened here.  For one thing, as a 
factual matter he was told by the police on September 
10th that he didn't have a lawyer, despite the fact that 
one had been appointed for him in the morning.  That was 
his testimony.

 Now, I recognize that there is a factual 

issue here that is not resolved, but the Louisiana 
Supreme Court did not discredit that testimony.  It 
acknowledged it.  What it said was -- and I think this 
points up, Justice Kennedy, what the problem is with 
relying solely on Miranda -- that even in that 
situation, even if it's true that the police officers 
told him on September 10th that he did not have a 
lawyer, that that wouldn't rise to the level of a 
problem that would cause a Fifth Amendment issue under 
Miranda because of the facts of Moran.  And it seems to 
me that's exactly the problem there, that that means in 
fact, if we apply Moran that way, that the police could 
deliberately tell him incorrectly that he didn't have a 
lawyer when he did.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But wouldn't that be a 

Miranda problem?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, I don't -- well, Moran 

says no.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Miranda. 

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. VERRILLI:  Well, Moran says that a 

Miranda waiver is valid despite that kind of deception. 
That's the problem here, it seems to me.  It does get to 
the difference.  In the Fifth Amendment context, the 
right to have a lawyer there is a prophylactic 
protection against a coerced self-incrimination in the 
setting of custodial interrogation.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You think, given Moran, 

that there was no Miranda violation here?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, I think it would be 
hard, given Moran, to say that there was.  And that 
points up the problem.  The essence of this right is the 
right to rely on the assistance of counsel at critical 
stages and interrogation is a critical stage.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Verrilli, is it part 

of your assumption that at the time the police were 
doing the interrogating that they knew he had been 
appointed a lawyer?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, I think that's a bit 

complicated, Justice Stevens.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  That's why I'm interested 

in your comment.

 MR. VERRILLI:  But here's my best way to 

work through the facts.  Detective Hall, the only 
officer who testified, testified that he was not aware. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The State court credited that and we don't take issue 
with it.  The problem is that this is a police precinct 
that has, I don't know, maybe 10, 12 officers in it. 
They have a capital murder suspect in there.  He was 
taken by the police to the hearing.  The police were 
present at the hearing that morning.  He was taken back 
--

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Do you presume -- do you 

argue that we should presume that the entire police 
force is aware of what happened in court?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, I think -- I think 

under Jackson, Justice Stevens, they are charged with 
the knowledge.  And I think it's important that they 
have to be charged with the knowledge, because otherwise 
there is all kinds of room for manipulation and 
deception.  And I do think that's a big part of the 
problem here, that -- and I also think it's important to 
point out as a factual matter the one detective who did 
testify, Detective Hall, testified very carefully.  He 
testified that he asked the defendant when he went to 
see him whether he had been contacted by counsel or 
whether his family had gotten him a lawyer, and of 
course neither of those things was true.  He was 
indigent, his family hadn't gotten him a lawyer, and he 
hadn't yet been contacted by counsel.  He didn't ask 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

him:  Did you have a lawyer appointed for you?

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Mr. Verrilli, do you think 

that Michigan v. Jackson is immune from being reexamined 
at this point?

 MR. VERRILLI:  I think it ought not be 

reexamined here, Justice Alito, for several reasons. 
One, the Respondent has not asked for it.  Two, there's 
a special justification that has to be shown to overrule 
it, as Dickerson says, in the Miranda context, and this 
is quite parallel.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, if we were no longer 

to adhere to that rule on issues of constitutional 
criminal procedure?

 MR. VERRILLI:  I think it's quite important 
that the Court do so, and there was a strong consensus 
in Dickerson that the Court do so.  I think there's a 
real problem.  This is not something that should be done 
lightly based on four pages of discussion in one amicus 
brief.  There's a very sharp dividing line in the law 
between the Fifth Amendment and the Sixth Amendment 
here, and it applies in numerous areas.

 It's true, for example, with respect to 

lineups.  You can have an uncounseled lineup before the 
Sixth Amendment right attaches, you can't after.  You 
can have an uncounseled psychiatric examination before 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it attaches, you can't after.  You can engage in 
surreptitious interrogation of a suspect before the 
Fifth Amendment -- before the Sixth Amendment right 
attaches; you can't after.  Certain kinds of 
arraignments have to be done in the presence of counsel.
 So it seems to me you would be destabilizing 

a whole significant area of law without very much 
consideration here were you to say that in this context 
we're going to just say that the Fifth Amendment and the 
Sixth Amendment operate in an equivalent manner.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  We wouldn't be saying that. 
We would just be saying that it is unrealistic to think 
that a confession is coerced simply because the police 
initiated the conversation so long as he said:  Okay, 
I'll speak without my counsel present.  That's all we --
I don't see how it would infect any of these other 
areas.  It would just say that's -- that's one bridge 
too far.  This is prophylaxis on prophylaxis.

 MR. VERRILLI:  You would be overruling 

Jackson in that regard.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's true, but not much 

else.

 MR. VERRILLI:  And in a case in which it 

seems to me manifestly not appropriate to do so, given 
the lack of consideration given to this by the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Respondent --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's a different 

question.

 MR. VERRILLI:  And -- well, this is serious 
business.  You are going to overrule a precedent that's 
been in place for more than 20 years, that provides a 
very clear bright-line rule for the police to -- to 
manage their affairs with not the slightest showing that 
this rule is presenting any practical problems in its 
administration out there in the field.  Nobody has even 
argued that.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, Mr. Verrilli, you 
have spoken of -- of overruling a bright line, but I 
think there is something else that would be involved in 
the overruling.  And I -- I haven't pulled Jackson back 
out since I came on the bench, so this is where you've 
got to help me out.

 There is a -- there is a difference between 
the way you are phrasing the Sixth Amendment right and 
the way, for example, Justice Scalia has phrased it in 
his question.  Justice Scalia has phrased it in terms of 
determining what is a coerced confession.  You have 
phrased it in your argument in terms of saying a right 
to rely upon counsel, which is a much broader concept.

 Does Jackson support the notion that he 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

simply has a right to rely upon counsel?  I think that 
is your principal argument here because that would be 
the argument that supports your claim that there 
shouldn't be a distinction between a case in which the 
State simply appoints counsel without being asked and a 
case in which he actually asks for counsel.  That would 
be a nice way of rationalizing that distinction.

 Isn't it the case that you understand 

Jackson to be a broader rule than a merely no-coercion 
rule?  And, number two, if that is so, then overruling 
Jackson would, as I take it, in your view be more than 
simply substituting a -- a one bright-line coercion rule 
for a different bright-line coercion rule.  So what are 
your responses to those two questions?

 MR. VERRILLI:  That is absolutely correct, 

Justice Souter.  The text of the Sixth Amendment 
provides that the -- the accused shall have the right to 
the assistance of counsel.  The essence of the right is 
the right to rely on the lawyer at critical stages of 
the proceeding.

 And what Jackson says is that that right 

deserves a very significant measure of protection, and 
we are going to assume that once a defendant asserts it, 
the defendant wants the -- wants the assistance of 
counsel through every critical stage of the proceeding. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You have to assume that his 

voluntary relinquishment of it is somehow coerced.  I 
mean there -- there is no way around that.  The man has 
said:  I know I have counsel, but that's okay; I'll talk 
anyway.  And you say:  So long as the police have 
initiated that conversation, we will deem it to be 
coerced.  You can't get around the coercion aspect of --
of this matter.  But that question is whether that is at 
all realistic.

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, I think -- I think the 
facts of this case make it quite clear that it's a very 
serious risk.  Here you have a situation in which a 
defendant who, after all, even before his right attached 
has been subjected to very, very aggressive tactics that 
the Louisiana Supreme Court recognized presented even a 
close case even -- even under the Fifth Amendment.

 Then he -- he finally has a 72-hour hearing. 

He gets a lawyer appointed.  As soon as he gets back, 
they take him out in a squad car for six or seven hours, 
at the end of which he produces a -- an apology-letter 
confession written on a pad with a pen given to him by 
the police officers and --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Again, you are 
arguing the facts of a particular case, and we are 
looking at a rule that is going to apply across the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

board.  In a particular case, as you say, the Louisiana 
Supreme Court said this almost violated his Fifth 
Amendment right.  There are protections against the 
actual coercion, which it seems to me you're arguing. 
As I understood Justice Scalia's question, he says: 
Don't you have to assume that there is coercion even in 
the mildest case, not the most extreme one, but the 
mildest one?

 MR. VERRILLI:  No, you have -- what you have 
is a right to rely on the assistance of your lawyer, and 
you have -- and -- and it's critical.  A good example of 
why it's critical --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  A right that you can 

relinquish, a right that you can waive, and all that's 
being suggested is that it is not totally determinative 
whether the police say:  Do you want to keep talking, or 
if the defendant says:  I want to keep talking.

 MR. VERRILLI:  But Jackson drew a clear 

line.  It did so because -- and the Court has said -- it 
was a -- a prophylactic rule, but it's a prophylactic 
rule that represents -- reflects the centrality of -- of 
the --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Right, and whether 

or --

MR. VERRILLI:  -- criminal process. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- whether or not 

your -- your dialogue with my colleagues about 
overruling Jackson -- putting that to one side, what you 
are arguing is an extension of Jackson from the context 
in which it arose to this context.

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, I think two -- two 

points on that, Mr. Chief Justice:  First, I think it 
would actually break new ground for this Court to hold 
that the defendant who has a lawyer isn't entitled to 
the protection of Jackson.  This Court has never held 
that.  And every time it has addressed the issue, it 
said the opposite.  Admittedly in dictum, but in 
Patterson and Moran it said the opposite.  So that is 
what is really breaking new ground, it seems to me.

 And second, the only way to treat these two 

categories of people differently is to come up with a 
principled distinction for why the right should apply 
differently to one than the other, and I submit that 
none has been offered.

 I would like to reserve the balance of my 

time.  Thank you.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Ms. Landry.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHRYN W. LANDRY

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. LANDRY:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The generous prophylactic rule of Michigan 

v. Jackson which imputed a defendant's request for 
counsel in one forum, i.e., his arraignment, to another 
forum of post-attachment custodial interrogation should 
not be expanded in this case to a defendant who has done 
nothing whatsoever to make such a request.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Did he have an 

opportunity to do it at the so-called 72-hour hearing? 
Was there any -- did the judicial officer ever ask him 
anything about whether he wanted counsel, whether he 
accepted counsel?  Was there any colloquy between them 
at all?

 MS. LANDRY:  Not that I'm aware of, Justice 

Ginsburg.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And is that standard 

operating procedure at these 72-hour hearings:  That the 
-- the defendant, who is there uncounseled is -- is just 
standing there, and the judicial officer says:  I'm 
appointing counsel for you, and he goes on to the next 
thing he's telling him?

 MS. LANDRY:  Yes.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is that how it operates?

 MS. LANDRY:  Yes, Your Honor, that is how it


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

operates.

 But I think one of the fallacies of 

Petitioner's argument is that it leads to the conclusion 
that this defendant had to make that choice at that 
moment at that hearing, and that is not what we have 
asserted either in the Louisiana Supreme Court or at 
this Court.

 Our position is he needs to make a request. 

Whether the request is made in the court proceeding, 
which Jackson said he can make it in the court 
proceeding and it applies thereafter to critical stages, 
which would include custodial interrogation, but in this 
case after they approached him again, there's no request 
at the hearing --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Did anybody ever tell him 
he needed to request?  I mean, he had just been told by 
a judicial officer:  I'm appointing counsel for you. 
He's not counseled at that point.  How does he know 
that, in order to protect his right to counsel, he has 
to make some kind of an affirmative assertion?  He's 
just been told he's got one.

 MS. LANDRY:  Because subsequently, when the 

police approached him, again there being no request 
prior to this that prohibited them from approaching him, 
they provided him with his Miranda rights, which 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Patterson says is sufficient in the context of a 
custodial interrogation that takes place 
post-attachment.

 They provided him with his rights, which 

included the right to counsel, and he then waived those 
rights.  In fact, this particular defendant on seven 
occasions, three of which -- four of which were 
pre-attachment and three of which were post-attachment, 
was given his rights, including the right to counsel, 
and each of those seven times waived in writing those 
rights.

 Our position is what he needed to do for 
Jackson is make some sort of request or some sort of 
positive assertion that he was asserting his request for 
counsel.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I would have no problem 
at all with the argument you are making if someone had 
told him that he needed to do that.  But he didn't have 
a judge to tell him that; he didn't have a lawyer to 
tell him that; and the police certainly didn't tell him 
that.

 MS. LANDRY:  No, but when the police did 
approach him after that 72-hour hearing, they advised 
him again of his rights, including his right to counsel, 
and asked him if he wished to waive those rights. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Excuse me.  They advised 

him, you say, of his right to counsel.  If they gave him 
the standard Miranda warning, what they said was:  You 
have the right to have a counsel appointed.  They didn't 
say:  You have a lawyer who has been appointed.  And, in 
fact, his testimony at least is that they told him the 
opposite.  But if all they did was give him the Miranda 
warning, they certainly were not informing him of his 
Sixth Amendment right or his Sixth Amendment status.

 MS. LANDRY:  I would respectfully disagree, 
Your Honor, because in Patterson the Court said that the 
Miranda rights were sufficient to apprise a defendant of 
his post-attachment Sixth Amendment rights.  Did they 
tell him you have a lawyer appointed?  No.  In fact, 
Detective Hall testified that he was not aware of the 
72-hour hearing or the --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  That's very puzzling. 
This is an experienced police officer.  The 72-hour 
hearing is required in every case where defendant is in 
State custody.  So how could an experienced police 
officer not know?  Somebody, by the way, who knew this 
man had been kept until -- even more than 72 hours.  And 
he testifies -- it's true that Detective Hall testified: 
I didn't know that he appointed -- had been appointed a 
lawyer.  The very same day that he got to the 72-hour 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

hearing a day late, how could he not have known?

 MS. LANDRY:  I can't answer that question. 
I can only answer the question that all of the officers 
testified that they were not aware that counsel had been 
appointed for the defendant that morning.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, of course, they know 

-- it's a death case -- that counsel is going to be 
appoint -- or it's a murder case -- that counsel is 
going to be appointed.  Everybody knows that except this 
defendant.  He doesn't know; of course he doesn't know.
 MS. LANDRY:  I understand.  They testified 

that they weren't aware that counsel had not been 
appointed that morning.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Just to clarify in my mind. 

Case one, the defendant has no lawyer.  He is -- they 
give him Miranda warning.  He says:  I don't want a 
lawyer.  Okay.  Now, do you want to speak against 
yourself?  Yes, he says, I do.  Sorry, strike -- he 
says:  No, I don't; I don't want to say anything, but I 
don't want a lawyer.

 Six hours later the policemen say to him: 
Are you really sure that you don't want to speak?  He 
says:  Well, maybe I will, and he makes a full 
absolutely voluntary decision.  That's okay under the 
Constitution, right? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. LANDRY:  Yes, sir.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  Now, it's the same 

case, except this time he says:  I have a lawyer; I 
hired him yesterday.  Now the policeman cannot say, are 
you sure?  Is that correct?

 MS. LANDRY:  That's correct.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's the law.  So, the 

law is -- and the reason for that second is because once 
you have a lawyer, police communicate through the 
lawyer.  Isn't that the reason, basically?  I just 
always thought that was the reason.  Once a person has a 
lawyer, another lawyer communicates through the lawyer. 
They don't go and talk to the client.  I thought that 
was the kind of rationale for it.  Maybe I'm wrong.

 MS. LANDRY:  No, I don't think that you're 

wrong.  I think that is part of the rationale.  What 
Jackson is trying to do was to deter --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  Now, if the --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Excuse me.  I think it's --
I think it's wrong.  I think it's common ground that so 
long as he says, even though I have a lawyer, I'll talk 
to you, that's okay.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm not talking about that.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And that's not okay in 

civil cases, but it's perfectly okay here. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE BREYER:  I was trying to give a 

hypothetical and my hypothetical is a different one than 
you were just told.  In my hypothetical the person has a 
lawyer, and I thought where he has a lawyer the police 
are not allowed to go and ask him questions about 
whether he wants to waive.  Of course, he can volunteer 
it.  Am I right about that?

 MS. LANDRY:  Yes, but I also thought that 
your hypothetical included the fact that he told the 
police that he had a lawyer, I retained one yesterday, 
which I think --

JUSTICE BREYER:  That's correct, that's 

correct.

Jackson --

 MS. LANDRY:  -- which I think goes further.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Correct.
 MS. LANDRY:  To me that connotes under 

JUSTICE BREYER:  Correct, that's the 
conundrum of the case.  Now I understand it.  The 
conundrum of this case is he didn't tell the police, I 
have a lawyer.  He had one.

 Now, if he had hired one and not told the 
police, it would be the same result as we just said, 
wouldn't it?  If he had one but didn't tell the police, 
the police could not initiate questioning; am I right or 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

wrong?  All I'm driving at is shouldn't the result here 
be the same?

 MS. LANDRY:  Well --
JUSTICE BREYER:  The same whether you hired 
the lawyer or the same whether the lawyer was appointed? 
At least that's what's in my head.  And if you can show 
me that you want the same result in both cases, that 
would go a long way towards convincing me.

 MS. LANDRY:  I would disagree with your last 
hypothetical because if a defendant goes out and hires a 
lawyer but never says anything to the police, he makes 
no request, no statement to them regarding the lawyer --

JUSTICE BREYER:  He tells some of the 

police.  Some of the police know.  It just happens that 
these particular ones don't.

 MS. LANDRY:  I think if he voices to the 
police some type of positive affirmation -- I have a 
lawyer, I got a lawyer yesterday -- to me that --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Let me just interrupt. 

Isn't it perfectly realistic to presume that the police 
knew at the 72-hour hearing he was appointed a lawyer?

 MS. LANDRY:  Well, I don't know that you can 

presume that.  I mean, you would be overriding the 
testimony of the officers.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But it happens in 99 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

percent of the cases, I think, in a capital case.  And 
surely, the police should be presumed to know what the 
normal procedure is.

 MS. LANDRY:  And in this case, even if you 
presumed that they knew that he had a lawyer, I still 
don't think it overrides the key issue in Jackson as I 
see it, which is his request for counsel, some type of 
affirmation or statement or action to the police that he 
wants to deal through his counsel.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But that doesn't go to the 

issue in this case.  The issue in this case, as I 
understand it, is not that he lost because he failed to 
make a request.  He lost because he failed to make it 
affirmatively clear that he accepted the appointment of 
the lawyer who had, in fact, been appointed for him as 
he had been told.  That's not a request.

 As I understand it, under the -- under the 

State court ruling, if he had stood at the 72-hour 
hearing and the court had said, we're appointing the X 
office to defend you, and he had said, great, that would 
have changed the result in this case; isn't that 
correct?

 MS. LANDRY:  Yes, I think so.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  So the issue is not 

request.  The issue is acceptance.  That's what it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

seems -- just to get my point, that's what seems to me 
to be the acute point of several of the questions you 
have been asked.  Why -- we're not talking about 
requests.  Why should it make a constitutional 
difference whether the man stands in a Tennessee 
courtroom and simply stands silent when they said, 
you've got a lawyer --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Louisiana.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  -- as distinct from a case 

where they say you have got a lawyer, and he says, 
that's fine?

 MS. LANDRY:  Well, I would disagree with the 

characterization.  As I see the case, the question is 
Jackson turned on the fact that that defendant had asked 
for, had requested the help of a lawyer.  Patterson said 
so.  Patterson said Jackson turned on --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Yes, but in this very 
case, if there had been a court reporter present --
present, and if the record showed that this defendant 
said, thank you, I would like to be represented, then he 
would have been protected, right?

 MS. LANDRY:  I think he would have under 

Jackson.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Louisiana does not -- does 
not provide a transcript of all these hearings, does it? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. LANDRY:  No, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  So what would -- what 

should we presume to be the general practice that 
happened, that most of them say, no, I don't want one or 
most of them will say, thank you?

 MS. LANDRY:  Well, probably in most cases 

nothing is said.  But, again -- and that goes back to my 
earlier point, the police then approached -- I mean, the 
defendant could have said something at the hearing, but 
presuming nothing was said --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  He had no -- no way of 
knowing that being silent would produce a different 
result than saying, yes, I'm happy with the lawyer. 
Does the uncounseled defendant have any way to know 
that?  Does the routine require the judge to tell him, 
you have got a lawyer, but he's not going to be 
available unless you say you want him?

 MS. LANDRY:  No, because I think 

subsequently if he doesn't say anything when the police 
approach him, they tell him he has the right to counsel, 
and at that point he can exercise that right and say, I 
want a lawyer, I don't want to talk to you without a 
lawyer.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Ms. Landry, I don't really 
understand what you're arguing here.  I thought you were 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

saying there has to be a request in your response to 
Justice Souter, but then you accept as sufficient his 
merely saying thank you.  That's not a request.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Did the Louisiana Supreme 

Court say there has to be a request?  I thought they 
said there had to be some action, affirmative act of 
acceptance.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's what I thought, too. 

But you were saying there had to be a request.  You 
abandon that?  There doesn't have to be a request?

 MS. LANDRY:  No, I think there does have to 

be a request --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  "Thank you" is not a 

request.

my --

 MS. LANDRY:  I'm sorry, I didn't finish 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  You're not merely defending 
the State court here.  You're asking for a -- in effect, 
a different rule from that which the State court 
applied.

 MS. LANDRY:  No, we believe that the State 

court was correct when it held that some type of 
positive affirmation -- and that to me is the whole 
question --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Then are you equating 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

positive affirmation with request for a lawyer?

 MS. LANDRY:  Yes.  I think there has to be 

some action --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Then on your -- then on 
your theory, this individual's Sixth Amendment right 
would not have attached if he had stood in the courtroom 
and said, thank you very much, that's great.

 MS. LANDRY:  Well, whether the Sixth 

Amendment right attached I think is a different issue 
from whether the Jackson rule applies to then bar any 
police-initiated conversation with him, and the issue I 
think in this case is whether or not his silence -- the 
Petitioner has argued that the mere appointment of 
counsel with nothing further by this defendant 
constituted the request necessary under Jackson to 
invoke the rule.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  One of my concerns is that 

Jackson is a formality, but you're arguing for a 
formality on top of a formality.  I don't know what 
functional purpose is served by your position that he 
has to request the lawyer at the arraignment, especially 
when he's not versed in the law, he's in this stressful 
situation, and you require a formalistic request on the 
part of the defendant?  It just makes no sense to me.

 MS. LANDRY:  But Your Honor, I'm not 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

requiring a formalized request on the part of the 
defendant at the hearing.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No, you're requiring some 
kind of ritualistic phrase to indicate that he -- that 
he accepts the appointment.
 MS. LANDRY:  No.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  That he requests the 

appointment.

 MS. LANDRY:  No, sir.  I believe that he can 

remain silent, but later, just as in this case, the 
police approach him; under Patterson they give him his 
rights, which include right to counsel.  At that point 
he can request and invoke, and then Jackson becomes 
applicable because he has made a request.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  I understood you to 

concede that if he had made that request at the 72-hour 
hearing, the outcome of this case would be different.
 MS. LANDRY:  Yes, because Jackson says he 

can make the request --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  The key time is did he 

make the request at the hearing, not at the time he was 
confronted by the officers.

 MS. LANDRY:  I was just saying he can make 
it either time.  The fallacy of their argument is that 
he has to make it --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But it's sufficient 

protection for him if you presume, as is true in most 
States, that he did make the request, then you would 
lose.  You would argue against such a presumption, I 
know, but if we did indulge that presumption, the case 
would be over.

 MS. LANDRY:  Clearly I would argue against 

any such presumption; that's the whole reason -- the key 
to Jackson was --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, no, I didn't 

understand you to be doing that.  I thought your 
position was once there's a request, there's a request, 
and that's enough.

 MS. LANDRY:  Yes, I do.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But you're also arguing, it 

seems to me, that a request -- well, you're -- I think 
you're arguing two different things.  On the one hand, 
you're arguing that a request is necessary, and yet on 
the other hand, I understood you to concede in answer to 
a question from me that if he had stood in the courtroom 
in Tennessee, having been told that counsel was 
appointed for him and had said, yes, thank you, I accept 
that lawyer, that that would have been sufficient to 
satisfy Jackson, and that would have made the difference 
in this case. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Those are two different positions.
 MS. LANDRY:  Well, but I think the question 

boils down to whether or not the latter hypothetical, 
"yes, I want one," whether that is enough to constitute 
the request under Jackson.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, so far as I 

understand it, and you correct me if I'm wrong, but as I 
understand it, what the State Supreme Court said was not 
that he had to make a request, "I want a lawyer," but 
simply that he had to indicate in some way that he 
accepted the appointment of the lawyer which he had been 
told had been appointed for him; and that is a different 
situation from Jackson.

 So if -- if you are saying, yes, if he had 
said "thank you, I accept the lawyer," that would have 
been enough, then that in effect is -- is maintaining 
the position that the State court took; but if you're 
saying something more, that he had to say then or later 
on, "I want a lawyer," then I think you're going beyond 
the case that we have in front of us.  Am I wrong?

 MS. LANDRY:  No, you're not wrong.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So I -- I suppose 

what the dialogue simply establishes is that like in any 
situation there's going to be factual issues about 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

what's a request or not.  I mean, he could say, the 
court says I'm appointing Johnson, and he says, 
"Johnson?  Is that the best you can do?"  And the 
question is, is that accepting Johnson or not?  He says 
is that the best you can do?  Maybe it is, maybe it's 
not.  I mean, but the point is whether or not you 
establish a rule that requires some request, and in the 
odd case there will be a debate about what's a request 
or not, but the issue is the general rule.

 MS. LANDRY:  Yes, Your Honor, that's 

correct.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, I don't -- I don't --

I agree with Justice Souter.  I -- acceptance is 
something different from a request.  As I read the --
the State court's opinion, it was setting up a sort of 
offer and acceptance scenario.  The State was offering 
him counsel, said, "I appoint counsel," but it was 
ineffective until he says yes, "I accept counsel," 
whereupon, you know, he's lawyered up, but he isn't 
lawyered up until he says "I accept," and that's 
something quite different from -- from requesting 
counsel.

 MS. LANDRY:  Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Now, are you -- are you 

standing on the -- on the State court's analysis or not? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. LANDRY:  Yes, Your Honor, and I think 
the State court analysis comes from -- well, it came 
from the Fifth Circuit case of Montoya which was very 
similar factually, and the Fifth Circuit relied on the 
Court's opinion in Patterson, and I believe cited a 
footnote from Patterson that refers to, you know, 
affirmative acceptance of the appointment of counsel.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But this is still an 

artificial framework, because we know that in this case 
he has to have a lawyer under Gideon unless he waives it 
after being fully advised.  You couldn't rely just on --
on the failure to make a request not to proceed with a 
trial lawyer.  Of course he's going to have a lawyer 
unless after he very, very careful colloquy from the 
district judge or the trial judge, declines.

 So it seems to me that this -- this whole 
framework here is quite artificial.  Now, I do think 
there's a Miranda problem here, if we accept his -- the 
defendant's testimony that the police told him, "oh no, 
you don't have a lawyer."  I know there's a factual 
issue on that.  And I -- I think the counsel for the 
Petitioner may not be quite correct in Moran v Burbine. 
I didn't have time to talk with him about that.  There 
there was no misleading; they just didn't tell him that 
he had a lawyer.  Here, assuming his version of the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

facts is correct, they told him, "oh, no, you don't have 
a lawyer," they affirmatively misled him, and it seems 
to me that's a Miranda problem, if it's true, and that 
Miranda is completely sufficient to protect his rights.

 MS. LANDRY:  But also, if I can address that 

factual issue, because I think it is important in the 
context here, because the question presented to this 
Court, the assignment of error at the Louisiana Supreme 
Court was only premised on the fact that counsel was 
appointed.

 There was never any argument -- they bring 

up the factual issues about, well, the defendant 
testified at trial that he told them he had a lawyer, 
and the officers testified he didn't, to make it appear 
there's a factual issue there; but if you look back at 
the proceedings in this case, the motion to suppress, 
which is at the Joint Appendix page 6, never alleged any 
of those issues.  It only alleged that his statements 
were not free and voluntary.

 Then the suppression hearing comes.  Now, 

most of the effort at the suppression hearing was toward 
the videotape which is not at issue here, but the 
argument by the defendant's counsel on this issue was 
merely what exactly it is here, that the mere 
appointment of counsel was sufficient to trigger 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Jackson, and therefore everything after that should not 
have been admitted.

 There was never any testimony at the 

suppression hearing by the defendant or anyone else that 
he had been -- that he told the officers, "I've been 
appointed counsel," "I think I've been appointed 
counsel," "I think I might have a lawyer."

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It's just that everything 

after -- as far as I understand, the only piece of 
evidence we're talking about is his condolence letter to 
the widow which amounted to a confession of guilt.

 MS. LANDRY:  Yes, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  There is no other. 

Because all of the Mirandized free 72-hour hearing, all 
that is not in contest; all of that came in.

 MS. LANDRY:  That's correct, it's just 

the --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Can I ask -- I'm getting a 
different idea from what you're arguing.  I want to try 
it on you and see what your response is.  It's simply 
this, that there's something backwards about this case, 
and what's backwards is this, that when they're talking 
about a prophylactic rule in Jackson, what they're 
thinking of is the following:  Everyone agrees that when 
a person really has a counsel, at that point, unlike the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Miranda point, the police cannot talk to him further, 
though he can initiate.

 Now, everyone agreeing, what do we do with a 

case where a person doesn't have a lawyer, but he 
requests one?  Now, in such a circumstance, we're going 
to treat it as if he had one.  That's the prophylactic 
part.  But here's a case where he really has one.  So it 
doesn't fall outside Jackson.  It falls within the basic 
assumption of Jackson, that the difference between 
having a lawyer and not having a lawyer is, if you have 
a lawyer, the police can initiate nothing.  You can't 
talk to him.

 Now, if that's right, your case -- I mean, 

I'm afraid, their side, for your point of view, is a 
fortiori for Jackson, not the borderline of Jackson. 
Now, explain to me why I've got it wrong.

 MS. LANDRY:  Because, in our case and in the 

case where there's just counsel appointed, again I go 
back to the issue, there's no request; there's no 
positive action by the defendant constituting a request 
in indicating that he's requesting a lawyer, which was 
the basis of the ruling in Jackson.  It was -- and 
Patterson later said, Jackson turned on the fact that 
that defendant had asked for a lawyer.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, isn't the prophylactic 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

aspect of Jackson not what Justice Breyer just said, but 
the rule that a person who has a lawyer is thereafter 
incapable of waiving the assistance of the lawyer if the 
person wishes to speak with the police and the police 
happen to initiate the conversation?  You could have a 
defendant who's the most experienced criminal defense 
attorney in the world, who knows everything there is to 
know about trial tactics, who has a lawyer and decides 
it's in my best interest now to speak to the police. 
They happen to initiate it.  But Jackson has a 
prophylactic rule that says even in that situation, it 
can't be done.  That's the prophylactic aspect of 
Jackson, isn't it?

 MS. LANDRY:  Well, I would disagree --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Accept that, for argument's 

sake.  Accept that, and then same -- same question.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, why don't 

you answer Justice Alito's question?

 MS. LANDRY:  I was going to say that I 

disagree to the -- to the extent that I think part of 
the basis of Jackson was wanting to deter police from 
badgering a defendant into waiving a right that he had 
already asserted.  That was the crux, it seemed to me, 
of Jackson, that this defendant had asserted his right 
to counsel at the arraignment.  They then approached him 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

later.  And the Court found that that was a form of 
police badgering to then approach him after he had made 
the request for counsel.  And I believe that that's one 
of the differentiations in this case, where we talk 
about whether there's a request for counsel.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Interesting.  I think this 

is very interesting to me because I'm learning a lot. 
Suppose -- Let's assume Justice Alito is absolutely 
right and that when you have a counsel, that's what 
you've done and that's the reason why you don't talk to 
the police, or at least they can't initiate.  Fine. 
Take that as the rationale, and now apply it to this 
case.  Since he has a lawyer, whether he said yes, no, 
maybe, "I accept" or not, it would have nothing to do 
with it.  The same rationale would apply or would it?
 MS. LANDRY:  No, I don't think it would.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Because?
 MS. LANDRY:  Because, again, the appointment 
of counsel, as in this case, was an action taken by the 
State.  There was no action by this defendant asserting 
or requesting counsel.  This was a State action:  We're 
appointing counsel for you.  It's a pro forma thing that 
goes on, and then subsequently they go through the 
paperwork to determine whether he's qualified --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I see. 

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. LANDRY:  -- to receive indigent counsel.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Let me ask you:  If the 

case had gone to trial without any intermediate 
proceeding -- they just show up for the day of trial --
and there's no record of whether he accepted the lawyer 
earlier, would the State judge start out with the 
presumption that Faretta would apply and he's going on 
his own, or would they start out with the assumption 
that he is going to have a lawyer?

 MS. LANDRY:  No, Your Honor, because, 

obviously, just as Patterson discussed, the waiver issue 
is much different when you're talking about a defendant 
proceeding through a legal proceeding representing 
himself than it is in the context here.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  So you're drawing a 
distinction between this -- the kind of proceeding 
that's involved?  He doesn't really need help on 
deciding whether to confess, but he does need help if 
they go to trial?

 MS. LANDRY:  Well, it's not that he doesn't 
need help, but he's advised of his right to counsel and 
can voluntarily choose, exercise his own free will, 
whether he wants counsel or not.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  There's an irony in this 
case that Justice Kennedy put a finger on earlier:  If 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there were a civil case, whether you could go talk to a 
lawyer -- a client, rather, who was represented by a 
lawyer, the answer would be quite clear:  You could not, 
as a matter of professional ethics.

 MS. LANDRY:  Right, and I think that that's 

true of the --

JUSTICE STEVEN:  And the Constitution gives 
less protection than the -- than the professional ethics 
does.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of course, the usual legal 
rule is that silence implies consent, right?  Read the 
prosecution of Thomas More.  That's the legal rule.  So 
why shouldn't we assume consent just from the fact that 
he stood silent?

 MS. LANDRY:  Because, again, in Jackson, the 
assertion or the request for counsel is what implies to 
the police that this defendant does not want to deal 
with the police on his own, that he wishes to only 
communicate through counsel.  And the Sixth Amendment 
right that attached and his right to counsel is just 
that:  It's a right.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Ms. Landry, you're trying 

to explain your position, let's assume, to an 
intelligent layperson, and the first example is, in many 
States at the equivalent of the 72-hour hearing, the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

defendant is told:  The court is prepared to appoint a 
lawyer for you.  Would you like us to appoint a lawyer? 
And the defendant will say yes.  So he will have made 
the request for a lawyer.  And then there are States 
like Louisiana where this is a rapid-fire proceeding, 
and the defendant isn't asked any questions, he isn't 
asked to agree or disagree, and he doesn't have any 
lawyer there to assist him.

 So you are essentially asking the Court to 

make a distinction between defendants in the same 
position, both uncounseled, both not knowledgeable in 
the law, but the one who has the good fortune to be in a 
State where the judge tells the defendant, "You have a 
right to have a lawyer.  Would you like me to appoint 
one?"  And then this procedure.  Shouldn't defendant's 
rights turn on that distinction in the State law?

 MS. LANDRY:  Yes, because the police then 

approach him under Patterson, give him his rights, which 
includes the right to counsel.  He has every right to 
then exercise his free will, if he didn't do so at the 
hearing, and invoke his right to counsel.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 MS. LANDRY:  Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Verrilli, you 

have four minutes remaining. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. VERRILLI:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
 A couple points of clarification, if I 

might:  Counsel for Respondent has made the suggestion 
that the only facts that are before you are the facts 
that were in the suppression hearing, rather than the 
facts that were subsequently adduced at trial when Mr. 
Montejo testified that he told them he didn't want to go 
with them and he thought he had a lawyer and was told he 
didn't.  That's not correct as a matter of Louisiana 
law.  The citation there is State v. Green, 655 Southern 
2d 272, where it's quite clear as a matter of Louisiana 
law that the supreme court evaluates the entire record. 
It's not clear as a matter of federal law.  That was one 
of the holdings of Arizona against Fulminante.  Now, we 
cited that case for harmless error purposes, not this 
purpose, but --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But, Mr. Verrilli --
MR. VERRILLI:  -- but quite clear --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- you just struck two 

chords:  One, harmless error; the other, that this 
defendant testified at his trial.  We have held that a 
defendant's statements, although he wasn't given his 
Jackson right, can come in by way of impeachment if he 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

testifies.  So in this defendant's case, even if we 
accept everything you say, the -- that condolence letter 
could have been used for impeachment purposes.

 MR. VERRILLI:  Yes.  We don't contest that, 

Justice Ginsburg.  Of course, it wasn't used for 
impeachment purposes; it was used in fact as substantive 
evidence, and there was no limiting instruction to let 
the jury know that it could only be considered for that 
limited purpose.  And I don't think that suffices even 
remotely to overcome the harmless error problem here.

 The second point of clarification, it does 

seem to me clear, both from pages 14 and 15 of 
Respondent's brief and Respondent's argument here today 
and in particular the citation to the Montoya case in 
the Fifth Circuit, they are not advocating a request 
rule; they are advocating a request or assertion rule. 
In fact, the very passage in Montoya to which 
Respondent's counsel adverts -- it says there doesn't 
have to be a request so long as there is an assertion.

 And that's the principle they're advocating. 

It just doesn't make any sense as a sensible dividing 
line between categories of defendants who are protected 
by Jackson and those who aren't for the reasons that we 
have discussed.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Verrilli, I don't 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

understand your response to Justice Ginsburg.  I mean, 
it seems to me, if this thing was going to come in 
anyway, how could you possibly say it was harmful and 
not harmless error?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, it would come --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  What difference does it 
make whether it's introduced in the case in chief or 
whether it's introduced to refute the defendant's 
assertion that he didn't do it?

 MR. VERRILLI:  Well, if it's introduced in 
the case in chief, it's substantive evidence on which 
the prosecution relied or can rely to establish the 
case.  It's very much like Fulminante in that regard. 
There were two confessions, one admissible, the other 
inadmissible.  And it was the self-reinforcing character 
of the two that made it not a harmless error for 
Fulminante.  We really have the same thing.

 But, if I could, I would like to get back, 
Justice Kennedy, to the Moran case.  I do think, with 
all due respect, there was an element of deception in 
Moran that was sanctioned as consistent with Miranda. 
Two things happened there:  The police informed Moran's 
lawyer that they -- incorrectly, falsely -- that they 
weren't going to interrogate him, but they also failed 
to inform Moran that he had a lawyer, and the lawyer was 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

standing out there.  And that's fully as much of a 
deception as telling somebody he doesn't have a lawyer 
when he does, or withholding information that made a big 
difference for Sixth Amendment purposes, which is why 
the Court in Moran drew that line very sharply and said, 
for Fifth Amendment purposes, the Sixth Amendment right 
hasn't attached, there isn't an interference with the 
attorney-client relationship, but the very same thing 
would be forbidden under the Sixth Amendment.

 And Patterson says exactly the same thing. 
In Patterson, again -- just to conclude, Justice Breyer 
-- drew the line exactly where Your Honor's hypothetical 
drew it.  What Patterson says is that, if a defendant 
does not have a lawyer, we operate one way; when a 
defendant has a lawyer, a different set of rules kick 
in.  And then, it says, indeed the different rules kick 
in even if a defendant requests a lawyer, making clear 
that the point of extending to request was to put 
defendants who have asked for lawyers but don't have 
them yet in the same position as defendants who have 
lawyers, not to give them a superior Sixth Amendment 
protection.

 Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Verrilli. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The case is submitted.
 (Whereupon, at 11:15 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

A 

abandon 38:10 
ability 10:3 
above-entitled 

1:11 57:3 

absolutely 6:25 

23:15 31:24 
49:8 

adverts 54:18 
advised 29:23 
30:1 44:11 
50:21 

advocating 

54:15,16,20 

affairs 22:8 
affirmation 
34:17 35:8 
38:23 39:1 

answer 7:16 

31:2,3 41:19 
48:18 51:3 

anybody 28:15 
anyway 24:5 

55:3 

apart 9:4 
apology-letter 

24:20 

1:14 

28:20 38:6 
44:7 

accept 11:5 38:2 
appear 45:14 
41:22 42:15 
43:18,20 44:18  affirmative 3:17  APPEARAN... 
48:15,16 49:14 
54:2 
acceptance 3:17  affirmatively 
3:15 35:14 
35:25 38:7 
45:2 
43:13,16 44:7 
accepted 11:4 
27:13 35:14 
42:11 50:5 

applicable 40:14 
applied 38:20 
applies 3:23 
12:14 20:21 
28:11 39:10 

affords 4:1 
afraid 47:14 
aggressive 24:14 
agree 9:7 43:13 

apply 3:24 8:23 

appendix 7:7 

45:17 

accepting 3:15 

43:4 

52:7 

appoint 12:11 

alleged 45:17,18 

31:8 43:17 
52:1,2,14 

agreeing 47:3 
agrees 46:24 
Aid 7:7 

accepts 40:5 
accord 11:11 
accused 23:17 
acknowledged  Alito 20:2,6,11 
47:25 49:8 
17:9 
acquiesced 3:14  Alito's 48:18 
act 38:6 
action 35:8 38:6  allowed 33:5 
alternative 6:13  appointed 3:21 
39:3 47:20 
Amendment 
4:3,4,18 5:10 
49:19,20,21 
6:16 7:17 11:7 
3:12,20 4:2 
actual 13:20 
11:21 13:9,19 
8:14 9:15,20 
15:1,2,11,19 
9:21 10:1,23 
17:15 18:4 
15:21 16:3,4 
17:4 18:18 
20:20,20,24 
20:1 24:18 
21:3,3,9,10 
22:19 23:16 
30:4,5,14,24 
30:24 31:5,9 
24:16 25:3 
31:13 34:5,21 
30:9,9,13 39:5 
35:15 41:22 
39:9 51:19 
56:4,6,6,9,21 
42:12 45:10 
46:6,6 47:18 

acute 36:2 
address 45:5 
addressed 26:11 
adduced 53:8 
adhere 20:12 
administration 

admissible 

amicus 7:7 

55:14 

22:10 

25:4 

admission 3:18 
admitted 3:24 

46:2 

Admittedly 

26:12 

appointing 13:4  Arizona 53:16 

20:18 

amounted 46:11 
analysis 43:25 

44:2 

27:21 28:17 
35:19 43:2 
49:22 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

appropriate 8:6  assert 12:19 
asserted 28:6 

21:24 

7:10 

14:21,22 17:18  approximately 
24:25 26:17 
49:12,15 50:7 
applying 10:15 
10:16,20 12:18 
12:23 

area 21:7 
areas 20:21 

argue 19:9 41:4 

21:17 

appointment 
3:14,16 4:19 
6:8,20 7:5 
10:22 11:4,6 
12:6,22 35:14 
39:13 40:5,8 
42:11 44:7 
45:25 49:18 
appoints 23:5 
apprise 30:12 
approach 29:23 

37:20 40:11 
49:2 52:18 
approached 

28:13,23 37:8 
48:25 

approaching 

28:24 

argued 22:11 

41:7 

39:13 

arguing 24:24 

25:4 26:4 
37:25 39:18 
41:15,17,18 
46:19 

2:2,7 3:4,7 
22:23 23:2,3 
26:24 28:3 
29:17 40:24 
45:11,23 53:1 
54:13 

argument's 

48:15 

arose 26:5 
arraignment 
27:5 39:21 

arraignments 

48:25 

21:5 

arrives 14:13 
artificial 44:9,17 
asked 7:12 11:1 
11:19 12:1,11 
16:15 19:20 
20:7 23:5 
29:25 36:3,14 
47:24 52:6,7 
56:19 

asking 12:21 
14:21 38:18 
52:9 

asks 23:6 
aspect 24:7 48:1 

48:12 

48:23,24 

asserting 29:14 

49:20 

assertion 28:20 

29:14 51:16 
54:16,19 55:9 

asserts 23:23 
assignment 45:8 
assist 52:8 
assistance 18:13 
23:18,24 25:10 
48:3 

assistant 13:25 

14:4 

assume 4:11 
5:21 7:17 
23:23 24:1 
25:6 49:8 
51:13,23 

assuming 44:25 
assumption 
18:16 47:9 
50:8 

attached 3:21 

9:15,21 24:13 
39:6,9 51:20 

argument 1:12  Association 7:8 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

56:7 

attaches 20:24 

21:1,4 

attorney 8:12 

attorneys 14:3 
attorney-client 

48:7 

56:8 

authorities 7:3 
automatic 6:20 

2:4,6,9 3:8 
26:25 53:2 
believe 38:21 

40:9 44:5 49:3 

believed 3:16 
bench 22:16 
best 18:23 43:3 

43:5 48:9 

beyond 42:19 
big 19:16 56:3 

7:4 10:22 12:6  bit 18:19 
12:22 

board 14:21 

automatically 

25:1 

4:2,15,20 5:10  boils 42:3 
borderline 
6:16 11:21 

47:15 

break 26:8 
breaking 26:14 

available 37:17 
aware 18:25 
19:10 27:15 
30:15 31:4,12  Breyer 31:14 
32:2,7,18,23 
33:1,12,15,18 
34:4,13 46:18 
48:1,15 49:6 
49:17,25 56:11 

B 1:15 2:3,8 3:7 

a.m 1:13 3:2 

57:2 

B 

53:1 

back 14:12,13 

14:16,17 16:16 
19:6 22:15 
24:18 37:7 
45:15 47:19 
55:18 

backwards 
46:21,22 

badgering 48:22 

49:2 

bridge 21:17 
brief 7:7 20:19 

54:13 

bright 22:13 
bright-line 22:7 

23:12,13 
bring 14:25 

45:11 

broader 22:24 

23:9 

brought 10:24 

11:18,20 

bail 13:13 
balance 26:20 
Burbine 44:22 
bar 8:23 10:8,15  business 22:5 
39:10 
based 20:18 
basic 47:8 
basically 32:10 
basis 6:7 11:16 
47:22 48:21 

C
C 2:1 3:1 
called 14:10 
calls 14:4 
capital 14:7,9 

Baton 1:17 
beginning 16:16  car 14:14 24:19 
behalf 1:16,17 

careful 44:14 

19:4 35:1 

carefully 19:19 
case 3:4,11 5:23 

chief 3:3,9 5:19 
6:5,10 14:20 
15:9,16,18 
16:1,13,18,21 
24:23 25:13,23 
26:1,7,22 27:1 
41:10 42:23 
48:17 52:22,24 
53:3 55:7,11 
56:24 

8:7 9:13,17 
10:10 14:6,7 
14:22 21:23 
23:4,6,8 24:11 
24:16,24 25:1 
25:7 27:7 
28:13 30:19 
31:7,8,15 32:3 
33:19,20 35:1 
35:4,11,11,21 
36:9,13,18 
39:12 40:10,17  choose 50:22 
chords 53:22 
41:5,25 42:20 
Circuit 44:3,4 
43:8 44:3,9 
45:16 46:21 
47:4,7,13,17 
47:18 49:4,13 
49:19 50:3,25 
51:1 53:17 
54:1,14 55:7 
55:11,13,19 
57:1,2 

choice 6:6 7:2 
9:9 16:11,20 
28:4 

cited 44:5 53:17 
civil 10:7 32:25 

citation 53:12 

circumstance 

54:14 

54:15 

51:1 

47:5 

cases 12:18 
32:25 34:7 
35:1 37:6 

claim 23:3 
clarification 
53:4 54:11 
categories 11:17  clarify 31:14 

26:16 54:22 
category 10:21 

10:21,24 11:25 
12:22 

12:16 22:7 
24:11 25:18 
35:14 51:3 
cause 17:15 
53:13,15,20 
cell 7:18 8:10 
54:12 56:17 
centrality 25:21  Clearly 41:7 
Certain 21:4 
certainly 29:20 

30:8 

changed 35:21 
character 55:15 
characterizati... 

36:13 

characterize 

charged 19:12 

6:19 

19:14 

32:13 51:2 
client's 14:19 
close 24:16 
coerced 4:8,15 

4:21 10:17 
18:6 21:13 
22:22 24:2,7 
coercion 23:12 

23:13 24:7 
25:4,6 

colloquy 10:25 

13:10,12 27:13 
44:14 

come 4:13 13:12 

26:16 53:25 
55:2,5 

comes 13:14 
44:2 45:20 
coming 14:17 
comment 18:22 
common 4:1 

32:20 

communicate 
32:9 51:19 

communicates 

32:12 

completely 45:4 
complicated 

18:20 

concede 9:2 

40:16 41:19 
concept 22:24 
concerns 39:17 
conclude 56:11 
conclusion 8:4 

28:3 

confession 3:19 

3:23 4:7,20
9:23 10:17 
21:13 22:22 
24:21 46:11 

confessions 

conform 11:25 
confronted 

40:22 

connotes 33:16 
consensus 20:15 
consent 51:11 

51:13 

consideration 

21:8,25

considered 54:8 
consistent 55:21 

condolence 
46:10 54:2 
clear 4:10 12:14  confess 50:18 

client 8:20 10:13 

55:14 

checked 14:13 

colleagues 26:2 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

consistently 

8:13 

constitute 42:4 
constituted 

39:15 

constitutes 6:11 
constituting 

47:20 

Constitution 
31:25 51:7 

constitutional 

20:12 36:4 

consulting 10:12 
contact 10:7 
contacted 19:21 

19:25 

contest 46:15 

54:4 

context 9:20 

10:1 18:4 20:9 
21:8 26:4,5 
29:1 45:7 
50:14 

continue 4:13 
continues 15:5 
contract 14:2,3 
contrary 10:8 
conundrum 

33:19,20 

conversation 
7:3 15:14,17 
16:4 21:14 
24:6 39:11 
48:5 

convincing 34:8 
core 9:6 
correct 23:15 
32:5,6 33:12 
33:13,15,18 
35:22 38:22 
42:7 43:11 
44:22 45:1 
46:16 53:11 
correctly 13:1 
counsel 3:14 4:3 
4:4,5,9,10,12 
4:18,18,20 5:2 

courtroom 36:6 

9:13 43:15,25 
44:5 

credited 19:1 
criminal 20:13 

39:6 41:20 
court's 3:25 

42:17 43:2 
44:2 45:8,9 
49:1 52:1,9 
53:14 56:5 

5:4,10,12 6:2,7 
7:13 11:6,6,8 
11:21 12:2,10 
12:11,12,20 
13:9,19 18:13 
19:21,25 21:5 
21:15 22:24 
23:1,5,6,18,25 
24:4 26:22 
27:5,12,13,21 
28:17,19 29:5 
25:25 48:6 
29:9,15,24 
30:2,4 31:4,7,8  critical 7:1 
31:12 35:7,9 
37:20 39:14 
40:12 41:21 
43:17,17,18,22  crux 48:23 
44:7,21 45:9 
45:23,25 46:6 
46:7,25 47:18 
48:17,25 49:3 
49:5,9,19,21 
49:22 50:1,21 
50:23 51:16,19 
51:20 52:19,21 
52:22 53:5 
54:18 

27:6 28:12 
29:2 

50:4

D

D 3:1
day 30:25 31:1 

custodial 18:7 

custody 30:20 

18:13,14 23:19 
23:25 25:11,12 
28:11 

counseled 28:18 
counts 16:6 
couple 8:3 53:4 
course 6:20 7:11 

13:11 14:7 
19:23 31:6,10 
33:6 44:13 
51:10 54:5 
court 1:1,12 

3:10,16 7:6 8:4 
9:20,24 12:4 
12:11 17:8 
19:1,10 20:15 
20:16 24:15 
25:2,19 26:8 
26:10 27:2 
28:6,7,9,10 
30:11 35:18,19 
36:18 38:5,18 
38:19,22 42:8 

deal 35:9 51:17 
death 31:7
debate 43:8
deception 18:2
19:16 55:20
56:2

decided 5:16
decides 48:8
deciding 50:18
decision 9:13
13:13 31:24
declines 44:15
deem 5:16 24:6 
deemed 4:8,20

5:3 6:6,17
12:19

defend 35:20
defendant 4:8

4:16 5:2,10,11
5:16 6:6,9,22
7:2,12,13,17

determine 49:24 
determines 

detective 18:24 
19:18,19 30:15 
30:23 

determinative 

25:15 

48:21 

deter 32:17 

8:10,10,18,22 
8:22 9:16,19 
10:3,4,7 11:1,4 
12:7 13:2,5 
14:22 15:17 
16:10 19:20 
23:23,24 24:13 
25:17 26:9 
27:7,19 28:4 
29:6 30:12,19 
31:5,10,15 
34:10 36:14,19 
37:9,14 39:14 
39:24 40:2 
45:12 46:4 
47:20,24 48:6 
48:22,24 49:20  dictum 26:12 
50:12 51:17 
52:1,3,6,13 
53:23 56:13,15 
56:17 

22:18 36:5 
41:24 47:9 
55:6 56:4 

determining 

dialogue 26:2 

22:22 

42:24 

10:16 

20:16 

Dickerson 20:9 

difference 18:4 

defendants 4:2,3  different 22:2 
23:13 33:2 
37:12 38:19 
39:9 40:17 
41:17 42:1,12
43:14,21 46:19 
50:12 56:15,16
differentiations 

10:20,23 11:17 
11:17,19 12:1 
12:23 14:9 
52:10 54:22 
56:19,20 
defendant's 
9:15 27:4 
44:19 45:23 
52:15 53:24 
54:1 55:8 

differently

49:4 

defender 7:8 
13:17 14:2 

defending 38:17 
defense 48:6 
deliberately 

17:19 

11:17 12:23 
26:16,18

disagree 30:10 

34:9 36:12 
48:14,20 52:7 
discredit 17:8 
discussed 50:11 

54:24 

discussion 20:18 

denied 3:12 
depend 6:19 
depends 8:15,16  dispute 11:15 
distinct 36:9 
deserves 23:22 
distinction 23:4 
desire 4:9,17 
despite 17:3 

23:7 26:17 
50:16 52:10,16

18:2 

destabilizing 

21:6 

district 13:24 
14:2,8 44:15 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

dividing 20:19 

54:21 

doing 10:18 

18:17 41:11 

DONALD 1:15 
2:3,8 3:7 53:1 
door 14:16,17 

essentially 14:15 

23:18 

52:9 

establish 43:7 

55:12 

establishes 

42:24 

14:18 

ethical 10:15 
ethics 10:8 51:4 

51:8 

56:12,13 

drawing 50:15 
drawn 16:12 
drew 25:18 56:5  evaluates 53:14 
Everybody 31:9 
evidence 46:10 

54:7 55:11 
exactly 17:17 

driving 34:1 
due 9:7 55:20 
D.C 1:8,15 
E 
examination 
E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 37:8 50:6  example 20:22 
50:25 
22:20 25:11 
Early 15:18 
51:24 
effect 38:18 

45:24 56:10,12 

Excuse 30:1 

20:25 

42:16 

effort 45:21 
either 6:17 28:6 

40:24 

either/or 6:5 
elected 5:7,12 

6:7 

election 5:3 
element 55:20 
elicited 3:19 
engage 21:1 
entire 19:9 

entitled 10:22 

53:14 

26:9 

equating 38:25 
equivalent 

21:10 51:25 

error 45:8 53:17 

53:22 54:10 
55:4,16 

especially 39:21 
ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 

2:5,8 

essence 18:12 

32:19 

exercise 37:21 
50:22 52:20 

exercises 16:20 
existing 9:9 
expanded 27:7 
experienced 

30:18,20 48:6 

explain 47:16 

51:23 

4:17 

extending 56:18 
extension 26:4 
extent 48:20 
extravagant 

4:22,25 

extreme 25:7 

F

fact 4:18 13:16 
14:18 16:25 
17:3,18 29:6 
30:6,14 33:9 
35:15 36:14 

expressed 4:8,9 

49:11 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

45:9 47:23 
51:13 54:6,17 

facts 17:16 

18:24 24:11,24 
45:1 53:6,6,8 
factual 17:2,6 
19:18 42:25 
44:20 45:6,12 
45:15 

factually 44:4 
failed 35:12,13 

55:24 

failure 44:12 
fall 47:8 
fallacies 28:2 
fallacy 40:24 
falls 47:8 
false 6:13,13 
falsely 55:23 
family 19:22,24 
far 21:18 42:6 

46:9 

Faretta 50:7 
federal 53:15 
field 22:10 
Fifth 9:20 17:15 

18:4 20:20 
21:3,9 24:16 
25:2 44:3,4 
54:15 56:6 
finally 24:17 
fine 6:1 36:11 

finger 50:25 
finish 38:15 
first 3:4 8:3 
11:15 26:7 
51:24 

following 46:24 
footnote 44:6 
forbidden 56:9 
force 19:10 
form 49:1 
forma 49:22 
formalistic 

39:23 

formality 39:18 

39:19,19 

formalized 40:1 
fortiori 47:15 
fortune 52:12 
forum 27:5,6 
forward 11:24 
found 49:1 
four 20:18 29:7 

framework 44:9 

52:25 

44:17 

frankly 3:25 
free 7:2 9:8 

40:11 52:18 
56:21 

given 14:22 

15:19 16:22 
18:8,11 21:24 
21:25 24:21 
29:9 53:24 

gives 51:7 
go 5:16 32:13 

33:5 34:8 
35:10 47:18 
49:23 50:19 
51:1 53:9 

42:20 

front 14:18 

16:11,20 45:19  goes 7:9 27:21 
46:14 50:22 
33:14 34:10 
52:20 
37:7 49:23 
going 11:24 
14:16 21:9 
22:5 23:23 
24:25 31:7,9
37:16 42:19,25
44:13 47:5 
48:19 50:7,9
55:2,24

53:16 55:13,17 
functional 39:20 
further 8:9 

full 31:23 
fully 44:11 56:1 
Fulminante 

33:14 39:14 
47:1 

G

G 3:1
general 37:3

43:9

generous 27:3
getting 46:18
Gideon 44:10
Ginsburg 6:21

good 9:12 25:11 

52:12 

gotten 19:22,24
great 11:7 14:7 

35:20 39:7 
Green 53:12 
ground 26:8,14

32:20 

guarantee 9:22 
guilt 46:11 

H
half 7:10
Hall 18:24 19:19 

7:1 12:25 13:8 
13:15,20 27:9 
27:16,17,24 
28:15 29:16 
30:17 36:8 
38:4 46:8,13 
51:22 53:19,21  happen 48:5,10
happened 14:10
54:5 55:1 
16:22,24 17:1 
19:10 37:4
55:22

30:15,23
hand 9:8,10
41:17,19

Ginsburg's 7:16 
give 7:24,25 9:3 

9:10 30:7 
31:16 33:1 

happens 6:19

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

12:9 13:14 
34:14,25 

happy 37:13 
hard 18:11 
harmful 55:3 
harmless 53:17 

53:22 54:10 
55:4,16 
head 34:6 
hear 3:3 
hearing 3:15 5:4 

7:12 11:1,20 
13:6 14:11 
19:5,6 24:17 
27:10 28:5,14 
29:23 30:16,19 
31:1 34:21 
35:19 37:9 
40:2,17,21 
45:20,21 46:4 
46:14 51:25 
52:21 53:7 
hearings 4:3 
11:18 27:18 
36:25 

heart 5:1 15:7 
heck 14:18 
held 9:20 26:10 

38:22 53:23 

help 22:17 36:15 

50:17,18,21 

helpful 7:8 
hired 9:17 12:12 

32:4 33:22 
34:4 

hires 34:10 
hiring 12:20 
hold 12:5 26:8 
holding 8:5 9:6 

11:11 12:4 

holdings 53:16 
holy 14:18 
Honor 4:25 5:9 

11:14 27:25 
30:11 37:1 
39:25 43:10 
44:1 46:12 

50:10 

Honor's 56:12 
host 8:7 
hours 14:15 
24:19 30:22 
31:21 

hypothetical 
33:2,2,3,9 
34:10 42:3 
56:12 
I
idea 46:19
illustration 9:12
immediately

14:1,4,10

immune 20:3 
impeachment 
53:25 54:3,6 

implies 51:11,16 
important 19:13 

19:17 20:14 
45:6 

imputed 27:4 
inadmissible 

55:15 

incapable 48:3 
include 28:12 

included 29:5 

40:12 

33:9 

includes 52:19 
including 29:9 

29:24 

incorrectly 

17:19 55:23 
indicate 40:4 

42:10 

indicating 47:21 
indigency 11:22 

11:22 

indigent 13:18 

19:24 50:1 
individual's 

39:5 

indulge 41:5 
ineffective 43:18 

infect 21:16 
inform 55:25 
information 
13:3,4 56:3 

informed 55:22 
informing 30:8 
initial 3:14 4:3 

5:4 10:25 

initiate 6:8,15 

7:2 16:4 33:25 
47:2,11 48:5 
48:10 49:11 
initiated 10:11 
15:6,14,17,24 
16:10,20 21:14 
24:6 

initiates 7:21 
8:16,22 10:7 
initiating 16:6 
initiation 6:24 
7:22,22 8:16 
16:14 

instruction 54:7 
intelligent 51:24 
interest 48:9 
interested 18:21 
interesting 49:6 

49:7 

interference 
10:2 56:7 

intermediate 

interrogate 10:9 

50:3 

55:24 

18:17 

interrogating 

interrogation 

3:20 6:9,15,17 
9:14 15:7,25 
16:7 18:7,14 
21:2 27:6 
28:12 29:2 

interrupt 5:20 

34:19 

introduced 55:7 

55:8,10 

invoke 39:16 

40:13 52:21 
involved 22:14 

50:17 

irony 50:24 
issue 17:7,15 
19:1 26:11 
35:6,11,11,24 
35:25 39:9,11 
43:9 44:21 
45:6,15,22,23 
47:19 50:11 
issues 20:12 

42:25 45:12,18 

i.e 27:5 

J

Jackson 3:13,18
3:23,24 4:7,22 
4:24 5:2 6:18 
7:14 8:5,23 9:6 
11:12 12:7,10
12:14,17,24
19:12 20:3
21:20 22:15,25
23:9,11,21
25:18 26:3,4
26:10 27:4
28:10 29:13
32:17 33:17
35:6 36:14,16
36:23 39:10,15
39:18 40:13,18
41:9,24 42:5 
42:13 46:1,23
47:8,9,15,15
47:22,23 48:1 
48:10,13,21,24
51:15 53:25
54:23

jail 7:18 14:12 
January 1:9
JAY 1:3
JESSE 1:3
Johnson 43:2,3

43:4

Joint 45:17
JR 1:15 2:3,8 

3:7 53:1 

judge 29:19 

37:15 44:15,15 
50:6 52:13 

judicial 13:2,24 
27:11,20 28:17 

jury 54:8 
Justice 3:3,9 4:6 
5:6,13,19 6:5 
6:10,21 7:1,15 
7:16,23 8:2,8 
8:17,19,25
10:6 11:2,10
12:9,16,25
13:8,15,20
14:20 15:9,16
15:18 16:1,13
16:18,21 17:10 
17:21,25 18:8 
18:15,20,21
19:8,12 20:2,6 
20:11 21:11,21
22:2,12,20,21
23:16 24:1,23
25:5,13,23
26:1,7,22 27:1 
27:9,15,17,24
28:15 29:16 
30:1,17 31:6 
31:14 32:2,7
32:18,19,23,24
33:1,12,15,18
34:4,13,19,25
35:10,24 36:8 
36:9,17,24
37:2,11,24
38:2,4,8,13,17
38:25 39:4,17
40:3,7,15,20
41:1,10,15
42:6,22,23
43:12,13,24
44:8 46:8,13
46:18 47:25 
48:1,15,17,18
49:6,8,17,25
50:2,15,24,25 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

19:13,14 

51:7,10,22 
52:22,24 53:3 
53:19,21 54:5 
54:25 55:1,6 
55:19 56:11,24  knows 15:10,11 

knowledgeable 

known 31:1 

52:11 

justification 

20:8 

K 

KATHRYN 

31:9 48:7 

L 
La 1:17 
lack 21:25 

keep 15:3,15,22 

16:8,15,16 
25:16,17 

Kennedy 7:15 
7:23 8:3,8,17 
8:19,25 17:10 
17:21,25 18:8 
31:6 39:17 
40:3,7 44:8 
50:25 55:19 
kept 9:18,19 
14:14 30:22 
key 7:22 8:5 
10:5 35:6 
40:20 41:8 
kick 56:15,16 
kicks 12:7 
kind 16:11 18:2 

1:17 2:5 26:24  Landry 1:17 2:5 
26:23,24 27:1 
27:15,23,25 
28:22 29:22 
30:10 31:2,11 
32:1,6,15 33:8 
33:14,16 34:3 
34:9,16,22 
35:4,23 36:12 
36:22 37:1,6 
37:18,24 38:11 
38:15,21 39:2 
39:8,25 40:6,9 
40:18,23 41:7 
41:14 42:2,21 
43:10,23 44:1 
45:5 46:12,16 
47:17 48:14,19 
49:16,18 50:1 
50:10,20 51:5 
51:15,22 52:17 
52:23 
late 31:1 
law 16:11 20:19 

kinds 19:15 21:4 
knew 18:17 

28:20 32:14 
40:4 50:16 

30:21 34:21 
35:5 

know 4:12,19 

8:11 10:9 11:3 
19:3 24:4 
28:18 30:21,24 
31:6,10,10 
34:14,22 35:2 
37:14 39:19 
41:5 43:19 
44:6,9,20 48:8 
54:8 

knowing 37:12 
knowledge 

21:7 32:7,8 
39:22 52:12,16 
53:12,14,15 

lawyer 3:21 5:22 

5:24 6:1,2,12 
6:16 7:17,18 
7:19 8:17,19 
8:20 9:16,17 
9:18,19 10:3,4 
10:10,12 12:20 
13:4,12,16,21 
14:17,24 15:1 
15:2,10,13,19 

54:22 56:5,12 

32:21 34:8 
54:19 

23:9 38:3,17 
45:24 

lineup 20:23 
lineups 20:23 
long 21:14 24:5 

Michigan 3:13 
11:11 12:9,14 
12:16 20:3 
27:3 

longer 20:11 
look 45:15 
looking 24:25 
lose 41:4 
lost 35:12,13 
lot 49:7 

middle 15:13 
mildest 25:7,8 
mind 31:14 
minute 13:9 
minutes 52:25 
Miranda 7:24 

7:25 9:2,10,22 
14:23 15:19 
16:22 17:11,16 
17:22,25 18:2 
18:9 20:9 
28:25 30:3,7 
30:12 31:16 
44:18 45:3,4 
47:1 55:21 
Mirandized 

15:21 16:2,7 
17:3,14,20 
18:5,18 19:22 
19:24 20:1 
23:19 24:18 
25:10 26:9 
29:19 30:5,14 
30:25 31:15,17 
31:20 32:3,9 
32:10,12,12,12 
32:21 33:4,4 
33:10,21 34:5 
34:5,11,12,18  Louisiana 1:6 
3:5,16 17:7 
34:18,21 35:5 
24:15 25:1 
35:15 36:7,10 
36:15 37:13,16 
28:6 36:8,24 
38:4 45:8 52:5 
37:22,23 39:1 
53:11,13 
39:21 41:23 
42:9,11,15,19 
M 
44:10,13,13,20 
44:25 45:2,13  maintaining 
46:7 47:4,10 
47:10,11,21,24  making 29:17 
48:2,3,8 49:13 
50:5,9 51:2,3  man 24:3 30:22 
52:2,2,4,8,14 
53:10 55:23,25  manage 22:8 
55:25 56:2,14  manifestly 
56:15,17 
lawyered 43:19  manipulation 
3:12 10:21 
43:20 
14:12 53:9 
lawyers 14:1,5,8  manner 21:10  Montejo's 3:20 
matter 1:11 5:1  Montoya 44:3 
56:19,21 
7:11 17:2 
19:18 24:8 
51:4 53:11,13 
53:15 57:3 
matters 10:8 
mean 10:7 24:3 

layperson 51:24 
leads 28:3 
learning 49:7 
legal 7:7 13:25 

misled 45:2 
moment 4:24 

Moran 9:13,14
17:16,18,23
18:1,8,11
26:13 44:22 
55:19,21,25
56:5 

28:16 34:23 
37:8 43:1,6 
47:13 55:1 
means 17:17 

letter 46:10 54:2 
let's 49:8 51:23 
level 17:14 
lightly 20:18 
limited 7:1 54:9  measure 23:22 
limiting 54:7 
line 16:12 20:19 

Moran's 55:22 
morning 3:4 
14:11 17:4 
19:6 31:5,13 
motion 45:16 
45:24 
move 13:13 
merely 5:4 11:7  murder 19:4 

14:4 50:13 
51:10,12 

Montejo 1:3 3:4 

22:13 25:19 

46:14 

misleading

44:24 

42:16 

56:17 

21:24 

19:15 

mere 39:13 

54:14,17

36:5 

28:5 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

overruling 9:6 

phrasing 22:19 
21:19 22:13,15  piece 13:4 46:9 
place 12:4 14:11 
23:10 26:3 

31:8 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
names 13:25 
National 7:7 
necessary 39:15 

41:18 

need 8:1 9:3,11 
14:1 50:17,18 
50:21 

needed 28:16 

29:12,18 
needs 28:8 
negotiating 

10:11 

neither 19:23 
never 4:17 12:10 

12:11 26:10 
34:11 45:11,17 
46:3 

new 26:8,14 
nice 23:7 
normal 13:11 

35:3 

note 14:25 15:2 
notion 22:25 
no-coercion 

23:9 

number 23:10 
numerous 20:21 

O 
O 2:1 3:1 
obviously 50:11 
occasion 13:11 
occasions 29:7 
occurred 9:14 
odd 43:8 
offer 43:16 
offered 26:19 
offering 43:16 
office 13:18 

35:20 

officer 13:3 

18:25 27:11,20 
28:17 30:18,21 

officers 14:13 
17:12 19:3 
24:22 31:3 
34:24 40:22 
45:14 46:5 
oh 11:7 44:19 

45:1 

okay 5:25 6:23 

21:14 24:4 
31:17,24 32:2 
32:18,22,24,25 
42:22 

once 23:23 32:8 

32:11 41:12 

ones 34:15 
one's 15:11 
one-page 13:8 
operate 21:10 

operates 27:24 

56:14 

28:1 

27:18 

44:5 

operating 9:1 

opinion 43:15 

opportunity 
12:2 13:5 
27:10 

opposite 16:25 
17:1 26:12,13 
30:7 

option 5:15 
options 5:11 
oral 1:11 2:2 3:7 

26:24 

order 13:9 28:19 
ought 20:5 
outcome 40:17 
outset 16:17,18 

16:19 

outside 47:8 
overcome 54:10 
overrides 35:6 
overriding 

34:23 

overrule 8:5 
20:8 22:5 

P

P 3:1
pad 24:21
page 2:2 45:17 
pages 20:18

paperwork

54:12

49:24

parallel 20:10
part 10:25 18:15 

19:16 32:16
39:24 40:1
47:7 48:20

particular 24:24

25:1 29:6
34:15 54:14

party 10:9
passage 54:17
Patterson 9:25

26:13 29:1
30:11 36:15,16
40:11 44:5,6
47:23 50:11
52:18 56:10,11
56:13

pen 24:21
people 13:25

26:16

percent 35:1
perfectly 32:25

34:20

person 12:19
13:14 32:11
33:3 46:25
47:4 48:2,4
Petitioner 1:4

1:16 2:4,9 3:8 
3:12 39:13
44:22 53:2

Petitioner's 28:3
phrase 40:4
phrased 22:20

22:21,23

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

22:6 29:2 

please 3:10 27:2 
point 7:1 9:24 
19:18 20:4 
28:18 36:1,2 
37:8,21 40:12 
43:6 46:25 
47:1,14 54:11 
56:18 

points 17:10 
18:12 26:7 
53:4 

police 4:13 6:8 

positive 29:14 
34:17 38:23 
39:1 47:20 
possibilities

5:17 

possibly 55:3 
post-attachme... 

27:6 29:3,8
30:13 

practical 11:3 
11:13,23 22:9 

practice 37:3 
practices 12:1 
precedent 22:5 
precedents 3:25 
precinct 19:2 
premised 45:9 
prepared 52:1 
presence 21:5 
present 4:9 7:3 

45:7 

presented 24:15 

presenting 22:9 

19:6 21:15 
36:18,19

6:15,22,23 
7:20 9:16,18 
14:17,25 15:1 
15:6,14,24 
16:4 17:2,12 
17:18 18:16 
19:2,5,5,9 
21:13 22:7 
24:5,22 25:16 
28:23 29:20,22  preserved 9:9 
presume 19:8,9
30:18,20 32:9 
34:20,23 37:3 
33:4,10,20,23 
33:24,25 34:11 
41:2 
34:14,14,17,20  presumed 35:2 
35:2,8 37:8,19 
40:11 44:19 
47:1,11 48:4,4 
48:9,21 49:2 
49:11 51:17,18 
52:17 55:22 

41:4,5,8 50:7 

presumption

presuming

37:10

35:5 

prevail 6:11
pre-attachment

policeman 7:19 

32:4 

policemen 31:21  principal 23:2
police-initiated  principle 9:1

29:8

54:20

26:17

principled 11:16

prior 28:24
private 14:3
pro 49:22
probably 37:6 

3:19 39:11 
position 28:8 
29:12 39:20 
41:12 42:17 
51:23 52:11 
56:20 

positions 42:1 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

process 13:22,24  putting 26:3 

procedures 7:11  public 13:17 

problem 6:4 

11:3 12:3 13:7 
17:10,15,17,22 
18:3,12 19:2 
19:17 20:17 
29:16 44:18 
45:3 54:10 

problems 11:13 

11:24 22:9 

procedure 20:13 

27:18 35:3 
52:15 

11:19 

proceed 44:12 
proceeding 

23:20,25 28:9 
28:11 50:4,13 
50:13,16 52:5 

proceedings 

45:16 

25:25 

produce 37:12 
produces 24:20 
professional 

51:4,8 

prohibited 

28:24 

prophylactic 

18:5 25:20,20 
27:3 46:23 
47:6,25 48:11 
48:12 

prophylaxis 

21:18,18 

prosecution 
51:12 55:12 
prosecutor 8:9 

8:11,13 

protect 28:19 

protected 36:21 

45:4 

54:22 

protection 4:2 
7:25 9:3,11 
10:23 18:6 

23:22 26:10 
41:2 51:8 
56:22 

protections 3:13 

7:24 25:3 

provide 36:25 
provided 28:25 

29:4 

provides 22:6 

23:17 

psychiatric 

20:25 

14:1 

pulled 22:15 
purpose 39:20 

53:18 54:9 
purposes 5:5 
12:23 53:17 
54:3,6 56:4,6 
put 50:25 56:18 

puzzling 30:17 

Q

qualified 14:9

49:24

question 3:11

4:24 5:1,8 7:4 
7:6,16 9:5 
10:20 11:23
12:21 22:3,21
24:8 25:5 31:2 
31:3 36:13
38:24 41:20
42:2 43:4 45:7 
48:16,18
questioning

33:25

questions 23:14
33:5 36:2 52:6 

quick 9:24
quite 4:21 12:13 
20:10,14 24:11 
43:21 44:17,22
51:3 53:13,20

R 

R 3:1 
raising 14:18 
rapid-fire 52:5 
rationale 4:7 

32:14,16 49:12 
49:15 

rationalizing

23:7 

reach 8:4 9:5,18 
read 13:3 43:14 

51:11 

real 20:17 
realistic 24:9 

34:20 

really 8:4,17

12:3,5 26:14 
31:22 37:24 
46:25 47:7 
50:17 55:17 

reason 12:6 32:8 
32:10,11 41:8 
49:10 

reasons 8:7 20:6 

54:23

REBUTTAL

2:7 53:1

recall 9:13 14:10 
receive 50:1
recognize 17:6
recognized

24:15

record 13:23
36:19 50:5
53:14

reexamined

20:3,6
refer 7:6
reference 7:9
refers 44:6
reflect 13:10
reflects 13:9

25:21

refute 55:8
regard 21:20

55:13 

regarding 34:12 

regime 9:9 
reiterated 9:25 
rejecting 12:7 
relationship 
10:2 56:8 

reliability 9:22 
relied 44:4 

55:12 

relinquish 25:14 
relinquishment 

24:2 

rely 5:4,12 6:7 

10:4 18:13 
22:24 23:1,19 
25:10 44:11 
55:12 

54:19 56:18
requested 5:2

11:6,10 12:10 
36:15

requesting

43:21 47:21
49:21

requests 36:4

40:7 47:5
56:17

require 11:19
37:15 39:23
required 3:17

30:19

requires 43:7
requiring 40:1,3
reserve 26:20
resolved 17:7

relying 17:11 
remain 40:10 
remaining 52:25  respect 9:7
remotely 54:10 
reporter 36:18 
represent 3:22 

11:23 20:22
55:20

respectfully

14:9 

represented 

30:10

respects 16:11

4:10,17 36:20  Respondent
51:2 

representing 
14:5 50:13 
represents 

13:19 25:21 

request 4:4 

1:18 2:6 20:7 
22:1 26:25
53:5

Respondent's
54:13,13,18
response 38:1
46:20 55:1

15:11 27:4,8 
responses 23:14
28:8,9,13,16 
28:23 29:13,14  result 9:5 33:23 
34:12 35:7,13 
34:1,7 35:21 
35:16,25 38:1 
37:13
38:3,5,9,10,12 
38:14 39:1,15 
39:21,23 40:1 
40:13,14,16,19 
40:21 41:3,12 
41:12,16,18 
42:5,9 43:1,7,8 
43:14 44:12 
47:19,20 49:3 
49:5 51:16 
52:4 54:15,16 

retained 33:10
right 3:20 5:3,6 
5:6,12,24 6:2 
6:10,12 7:23 
9:21 10:17
12:12,20 13:20 
13:22 15:4
16:23 18:5,12
18:13 20:24
21:3 22:19,23
23:1,17,18,19

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

self-reinforcing 

six 14:15 24:19 

self-incrimina... 

49:25 

18:6 

55:15 

sense 4:1 14:7 
39:24 54:21 
sensible 54:21 
September 17:2 

serious 22:4 

17:13 

24:12 

served 39:20 
service 14:2,2 
set 56:15 
setting 18:7 

43:15 

29:10 

17:12 24:12 
39:23 42:13,25 
48:11 

31:21 

Sixth 3:12,20 
4:1 8:13 9:15 
9:21 10:1,22 
20:20,24 21:3 
21:10 22:19 
23:16 30:9,9 
30:13 39:5,8 
51:19 56:4,6,9 
56:21 

slightest 22:8 
solely 17:11 
solve 11:2,12 

somebody 30:21 

standing 27:20 

43:25 56:1 
stands 36:5,6
start 50:6,8
State 7:9 19:1 
23:5 30:20 
35:18 38:18,19
38:21 42:8,17
43:15,16,25
44:2 49:20,21
50:6 52:13,16
53:12 

statement 34:12 

35:8 

statements 

45:18 53:24 
States 1:1,12
7:10 10:24 
11:3,18,20,24
11:25 41:3 
51:25 52:4 
status 30:9 

23:21 24:13 
25:3,10,13,14 
25:23 26:17 
28:19 29:5,9 
29:24 30:2,4,9 
31:25 33:7,25 
36:21 37:20,21 
39:5,9 40:12 
47:13 48:22,24 
49:9 50:21 
51:5,11,20,20 
51:21 52:14,19 
52:19,21 53:25 
56:6 

rights 9:15 

28:25 29:4,6,9 
29:11,24,25 
30:12,13 40:12 
45:4 52:16,18 

rise 17:14 
risk 24:12 
ritualistic 40:4 
ROBERTS 3:3 

5:19 6:10 
14:20 15:9,18 
16:1,13,18,21 
24:23 25:13,23 
26:1,22 41:10 
42:23 48:17 
52:22,24 56:24 

room 19:15 
Rouge 1:17 
routine 37:15 
rule 4:1 6:18 7:2 

8:9,23 10:16 
12:14,24 14:20 
20:12 22:7,9 
23:9,10,12,13 
24:25 25:20,21 
27:3 38:19 
39:10,16 43:7 
43:9 46:23 
48:2,11 51:11 
51:12 54:16,16 
rules 7:25 10:15 

56:15,16 

ruling 35:18 

47:22 
S
S 2:1 3:1 
sake 48:16
sanctioned

55:21

satisfy 41:24
saying 4:16 6:11 

6:12 8:11
10:12 11:5
16:6 21:11,12
22:23 37:13
38:1,3,9 40:23 
42:14,18

says 5:22 7:13 
7:17,19 14:23 
15:1,5,14,20
15:22 16:5,14
17:24 18:1
20:9 23:21
25:5,17 27:20 
29:1 31:16,18
31:19,23 32:3 
32:21 34:11
36:10 40:18
43:2,2,4,18,20
48:11 54:18
56:10,13,16

Scalia 4:6 5:6,13 

10:6 11:2,10
12:9,16 21:11 
21:21 22:2,20
22:21 24:1
32:19,24 37:24 
38:8,13 43:12 
43:24 51:10
54:25 55:6
Scalia's 25:5
scenario 13:1

43:16

second 11:25
26:15 32:8
54:11

see 5:21 19:21 

21:16 35:7
36:13 46:20

seven 24:19 29:6  solved 12:3 

sharp 20:19 
sharply 56:5 
show 13:21 34:6 

56:2 

soon 14:12 

24:18 

50:4 

showed 36:19 
showing 11:21 

11:22 22:8 
shown 20:8 
shows 7:10 
side 10:9 26:3 

47:14 

significant 7:5 

21:7 23:22 
silence 6:11 

39:12 51:11 

43:15 

31:18 38:15 
sort 29:13,13 

sorry 5:19 15:16  STEVEN 51:7 
Stevens 18:15 
18:20,21 19:8 
19:12 34:19,25
36:17,24 37:2 
37:11 40:15,20
41:1 50:2,15
50:24 

Souter 22:12 
23:16 30:1 
35:10,24 36:9 
38:2,17,25 
39:4 41:15 
42:6,22 43:13 
Southern 53:12 
so-called 27:10 

stood 35:18 39:6 

41:20 51:14 
stressful 39:22 
stretch 4:11,14

silent 36:6 37:12  speak 21:15 

31:17,22 48:4 
48:9 

40:10 51:14 
silently 3:13 
special 20:8 
similar 44:4 
simply 4:7,11,18  spoken 22:13 
squad 14:14 

11:5,5 21:13 
23:1,5,12 36:6 
42:10,24 46:20  stage 16:2 18:14 

24:19 

sir 32:1 40:9 
sister 9:17 
situation 5:2 7:5 

7:14 10:14 
12:19 16:10 

23:25 

stages 18:14 
23:19 28:11 
standard 13:3 

27:17 30:3 

10:13 

strike 31:18 
strong 20:15 
struck 53:21 
subjected 24:14 
submit 12:4 

submitted 57:1 

26:18 

57:3 

subsequently 
28:22 37:19 
49:23 53:8 

substantive 54:6 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

19:6 49:19 

takes 13:25 29:2 
talk 4:14 5:22 

5:25 6:1,12,22 
7:20,20 8:9,12 
8:19 10:13 
14:23,24 15:5 
15:12,20 16:5 
16:6 24:4 
32:13,21 37:22 
44:23 47:1,12 
49:4,10 51:1 
talking 14:24 

15:3,15,20,22 
16:2,8,15,16 
25:16,17 32:23 
36:3 46:10,22 
50:12 

tell 17:19 28:15 

29:19,20,20 
30:14 33:20,24 
37:15,20 44:24 

telling 16:3 
27:22 56:2 

tells 14:4 34:13 

Tennessee 36:5 

52:13 

41:21 

terms 22:21,23 
testified 18:25 

18:25 19:19,20 
30:15,23 31:4 
31:11 45:13,14 
53:9,23 

testifies 30:23 

54:1 

testify 19:19 
testimony 17:5,8 

30:6 34:24 
44:19 46:3 

text 23:16 
thank 14:23 

substituting 

55:11 

23:12 

sudden 14:25 
suffice 9:3 
sufficed 9:22 
suffices 54:9 
sufficient 29:1 

30:12 38:2 
41:1,23 45:4

45:25 

suggested 25:15 
suggestion 53:5 
superior 56:21 
support 22:25 
supports 4:1 

23:3 

suppose 12:3 
42:23 49:8 
supposedly 

10:16 

suppress 45:16 
suppression 

45:20,21 46:4 
53:7 

supreme 1:1,12 

3:16 17:8 
24:15 25:2 
28:6 38:4 42:8 
45:8 53:14 

sure 7:15 11:24 

12:13 31:22 
32:5 

surely 35:2 
surreptitious 

suspect 19:4 

21:2 

21:2 

T 

T 2:1,1 
tactics 24:14 

48:8 

take 19:1 23:11 

24:19 49:12 

taken 13:2 14:12 

14:14,16 19:5


44:15 45:13 
48:8 50:3,4,19 
53:8,23 

think 6:4,14,15 
7:8 8:2,6 9:2,8 
9:10,12 10:11 
11:23 12:7,13 
15:7 16:9 17:9 
18:8,10,19 
19:11,11,13,16 
19:17 20:2,5 
20:14,16 21:12 
22:14 23:1 
24:10,10 26:6 
26:7 28:2 
32:15,16,19,20 
32:20 33:11,14 
34:16 35:1,6 
35:23 36:22 
37:18 38:11 
39:2,9,12 
41:16 42:2,19 
44:1,17,21 
45:6 46:6,7 
48:20 49:6,16  Tuesday 1:9 
51:5 54:9 
55:19 

32:17 33:1 
51:22 

trigger 3:17 

20:22 21:21 
30:23 41:2 
45:3 51:6 

45:25 

try 46:19 
trying 9:18 16:1 

true 17:12 19:23 

thinking 46:24 
third 5:20 
Thomas 51:12 
thought 4:6 

13:16 32:11,13 
33:4,8 37:25 
38:5,8 41:11 
53:10 

three 29:7,8 
time 18:16 26:11 

turn 52:16 
turned 36:14,16 

47:23 

two 5:11,17 

11:14,17 14:8 
20:7 23:10,14 
26:6,6,15 
41:17 42:1 
53:21 55:14,16
55:22 

type 34:17 35:7 

38:22 

U 

uncounseled 

13:2 20:23,25 
27:19 37:14 

V

v 1:5 3:4,13 

11:12 12:10,17
20:3 27:4
44:22 53:12

valid 18:2 
Verrilli 1:15 2:3 

2:8 3:6,7,9
4:23 5:8,15 6:4 
6:14,21,25
7:21 8:2,15,18
8:21 9:4 10:19 
11:9,14 12:13 
12:18,25 13:7 
13:18,22 15:6 
15:16,24 16:9 
16:17,19,24 
17:23 18:1,10 
18:15,19,23 
19:11 20:2,5
20:14 21:19,23
22:4,12 23:15 
24:10 25:9,18
25:25 26:6 
52:24 53:1,3
53:19,20 54:4 
54:25 55:5,10
56:25 

versed 39:22
version 44:25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

theory 39:5 
thing 17:1,1 
27:22 49:22 
55:2,17 56:8 
56:10 

things 8:3 11:14 

19:23 41:17 
55:22 

told 5:23 13:16 
16:5,15 17:2 
17:13 28:16,21 
29:18 30:6 
33:3,9,22 
35:16 41:21 
42:12 44:19 
45:1,13 46:5 
52:1 53:9,10 

52:11 

understand 13:1 

23:8 31:11 
33:19 35:12,17 
37:25 41:11 
42:7,8 46:9 
55:1 

understood 7:16 

25:5 40:15

41:19 

top 39:19 
totally 25:15 
transcript 36:25  unrealistic 
treat 5:11 12:22 

21:12 

United 1:1,12 

26:15 47:6 

upheld 3:18 
treating 11:16 
urgency 14:8 
trial 10:24 44:13  usual 51:10 

26:21,22 36:20 
37:5 38:3,13 
39:7 41:22 
42:15 52:22,23 
53:3 56:23,24 

26:21 32:3 
40:20,21,24
44:23 

times 29:10

today 54:13 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

videotape 45:22 
view 23:11 

47:14 

violated 25:2 
violation 6:17 

31:16 

warnings 9:2,22 

14:23 15:19 
16:22 

Washington 1:8 

10:1 15:4,9,15 
15:23,25 18:9
 wasn't 53:24 

1:15


x 1:2,7 35:19 

Y
years 22:6
yesterday 32:4
33:10 34:18

0

1

5

6

07-1529 1:5 3:4 

54:5 

55:24 

29:25 33:6 

we're 7:13 10:15 

voices 34:16 
voluntarily 

50:22 

voluntary 24:2 
31:24 45:19 
volunteer 33:6 

way 13:22,23 
16:16 17:18 
18:23 22:19,20  10 19:3
23:7 24:3 
26:15 30:21 
34:8 37:11,14 
42:10 53:25 
56:14 

W 
W 1:17 2:5 

26:24 

went 19:20 
weren't 31:12 

waived 29:5,10 
waiver 18:2 

wait 5:21 
waive 6:2 25:14 

10:15,17,19 
21:9 35:19 
36:3 46:10 
47:5 49:21 

10th 17:3,13
10:14 1:13 3:2 
11:15 57:2
12 19:3
13 1:9
14 54:12
15 54:12
2
2d 53:13
20 22:6
50:11 
2009 1:9
waives 44:10 
26 2:6
waiving 48:3,22  whatsoever 27:8  272 53:13
walked 8:11 
widow 46:11 
walks 7:19 
wished 29:25 
3 
want 5:22,25 6:1  wishes 48:4 
6:2,11 7:15,18 
7:20 12:2 
14:23,24 15:3 
15:12,15,20,22
 wondering 8:8

16:5,8,14,15

word 15:21

25:16,17 31:16

work 18:24 
31:17,19,20,22

works 13:23,24
34:7 37:4,17 
world 48:7 
37:22,22 42:4  wouldn't 10:11

42:9,19 46:19

51:17 53:9 
wanted 15:10 

6 45:17

655 53:12
7
72 30:22
72-hour 24:17

17:14,21 21:11 
33:24 

51:18 

withholding

53 2:9


56:3 

3 2:4

27:12 

wanting 48:21 
wants 7:13 

23:24,24 33:6

35:9 50:23 
warned 15:12 
warning 30:3,8 

writing 29:10 
written 24:21 
wrong 32:14,16 

32:20 34:1

42:7,20,21
47:16 
X

27:10,18 29:23 
30:16,18,25
34:21 35:18
40:16 46:14
51:25

9
99 34:25

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

