Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

Petitioners 
 v. 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
       
PRISCILLA SUMMERS, ET AL. 
:
              
:
                       
:  No. 07-463 
      
EARTH ISLAND INSTITUTE, ET 
: 
                             
AL. 
: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 Washington, D.C.
 Wednesday, October 8, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 11:06 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,

 Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
 the Petitioners. 

MATT KENNA, ESQ., Durango, Colo.; on behalf of the

 Respondents. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                    

3


MATT KENNA, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondents 

                   

26


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                   

52


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (11:06 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument next in Case 07-463, Summers v. Earth Island 
Institute.

 Mr. Kneedler.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The Ninth Circuit's affirmance of a 

nationwide injunction in this case is contrary to 
bedrock principles of Article III standing, of the 
availability and scope of judicial review under the 
Administrative Procedure Act, and the granting of 
equitable relief.  As this case was decided by the 
district court and as it comes to this Court, it 
involves a stand-alone challenge to two regulations that 
govern the procedures to be followed by the Forest 
Service in deciding whether to approve individual 
site-specific activities in national forests.
 The two regulations provide that 

site-specific actions that are excluded from either an 
environmental impact requirement or even an EA under 
NEPA are also not subject to special noticing and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

comment and administrative appeal provisions applicable 
to the Forest Service.  The Ninth Circuit sustained the 
district court's nationwide injunction as to those 
procedural regulations standing alone, not as part of a 
challenge to a specific site-specific activity.

 The court did so, moreover, on the basis of 
an affidavit from one member of one of the organizations 
who could not begin to establish standing under this 
Court's decisions by showing an imminent injury by 
virtue of harm to a site-specific activity; and the 
Court affirmed the nationwide injunction applicable to 
all forests with respect to all projects listed in ten 
categories identified by the district court, including 
national forests and projects that don't even -- that 
are not even included within that one declarant's 
generalized interests in certain natural forests.

 For the multiple combination -- combination 

of multiple reasons, we think the Ninth Circuit's 
decision cannot stand.

 First, as with respect to standing, the one 

declaration on which both the district court and the 
court of appeals rely is the declaration of Mr. Bensman, 
which is reproduced in the petition appendix.  And on 
page 70A and 71A are the only allegations of -- that go 
to injury at all with respect to the particular 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

regulations at issue here from paragraph 15 on to -- the 
bottom of 71A on, those are allegations concerning other 
regulations that are no longer at issue.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Standing itself, I mean, 

it's a little unusual.  Suppose -- I mean, Congress here 
has passed a statute and the statute specifically aims 
at a class of litigants.  And it says to the class of 
litigants, if you are a member of it, we are telling you 
what we want the agency to do and that is to promulgate 
a certain appeal procedure.

 Now, if you are a member of the class that 
frequently litigates and you frequently take advantage 
of that procedure, why aren't you heard as a litigant, 
at least enough for Article III?  And we know as far as 
prudential standing is concerned, Congress wanted to 
give you standing, so I think would it take care of 
that.

 Are you saying no matter -- that just normal 
litigants in the courts who reappear time and time again 
in certain kinds of cases, don't have standing to 
challenge a procedural rule, if Congress under Article 
III and Congress specifically tells them they can?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Congress has not specifically 

said that they may challenge --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Let's imagine that Congress 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

did, Congress did say:  By the way, lawyers who have 
handled 17 tort cases in the last year where the value 
has been more than $500,000 and who will sign an 
affidavit saying they intend to continue in that branch 
may appeal from the court's promulgation of the 
following general rule, dah, dah, dah.  And that 
Constitution prohibits Congress from doing that?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, first of all, I don't 

think it could be lawyers.  It has to be a party.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Right.  Those who -- fine, 

forget that, yeah.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  I think there would be 

substantial doubt that Congress could do that, because 
let me explain why, and this goes to a point that 
Justice Scalia was making in the prior argument.

 Procedural wrong is not Article III injury. 

The injury in this case comes from the application of 
the regulation in a specific site-specific --

JUSTICE BREYER:  You mean Article III and at 

Westminster -- at Westminster, when Westminster, 
whatever they had, they must have had some procedural 
rules, and sometimes they had general procedural 
rules -- I don't know what the history is; I could look 
it up.  But I would be amazed if the lawyers at that 
time or the clients who had certain cases were not 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

permitted to challenge those rules as contrary to some 
other rules.

 Do we know the answer to that?
 MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, if -- if Congress --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  In a particular case, I 

suppose.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  No, no, no.  Generally. 
Because you have a special procedure, here's what you 
can generally challenge our rules.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, if I could make, again, 
several points.  Congress has not passed such a statute. 
And there may be room in particular situations for 
Congress to pass a special statute that would identify 
particular interests that could then be taken into 
account in terms of whether Article III standing would 
be established.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay, then your answer is, 

if Congress says you can do it, have a general 
challenge to people who generally appear, your answer is 
if Congress says they could do it, Article III doesn't 
stop them?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  No, I -- what I said, that 

would be a different question.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Ah.  What's the answer to 

that different question? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, it might depend on a 

particular -- it might depend on a particular case.  In 
the Whitman case the court says that the statutes 
providing for direct review of regulations eliminate 
prudential limitations on ripeness in that case, but 
they wouldn't eliminate the bedrock principle of 
standing.  It would be necessary to show a threatened 
injury.  Now, it --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Mr. Kneedler, don't we have 

to assess the need for -- for showing a specific 
threatened injury on a -- on a somewhat elastic standard 
in a case like this?  Because the claim is made on the 
other side that if we do not allow, if we do not find 
standing to challenge the regulation per se, there are 
going to be a number of specific instances which in 
practical terms can never be challenged when that 
regulation is applied.

 There were one or two instances, as I 

recall, of cases in which on your theory there could be 
no challenge because the announcement of the action was 
made on the very date that the action was taken.  So 
that if we do not find sufficient elasticity and 
standing to allow a challenge to the regulation on 
behalf of people of the sort that Justice Breyer 
described, there will, in fact, be a preclusion of any 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

challenge to a lot of specific actions.
 What's your answer to that?
 MR. KNEEDLER:  Several answers if I may.  In 

the declaration on which standing was based in this 
case, that claim is not made.  And that is the only 
declaration that was made -- that was submitted before 
the district court entered its judgment.  There was an 
argument made like that after, after the fact.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Assume for the sake of 

argument that it is made in this case.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Okay.  Then --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  What should you respond?
 MR. KNEEDLER:  It is conceivable in a 

particular case that a person who -- who claims to be 
injured by that could sue to prevent that injury, but it 
would not be a challenge to the regulation as 
regulation.  It would be because specific, threatened, 
site-specific activities in which there would not be 
notice given in advance or there wouldn't be -- wouldn't 
be time, threatened to injure them.  It would again be a 
challenge to the application --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But your response to that 

is going to be, I presume, that in fact, absent a 
specific activity before the court, the -- the challenge 
is not ripe.  So that if you are going to stick to your 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

position elsewhere in this case, they are going to fail 
in that enterprise.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  And -- and -- and that may --

that may well be right, but that would be a separate 
question.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I don't understand -- I 

don't understand your response.  If -- if someone has an 
interest in -- in stopping a particular action that 
would be governed by -- by -- by this general 
regulation, surely that person could -- and is -- is --
is threatened proximately by that action, that person 
could certainly bring an action seeking to stop the 
action on the ground that this regulation is invalid.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  That was my -- that was my --

and that was my point.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And that would govern that 
particular action, but it would also be -- be precedent 
for invalidating the regulation in other cases.  I --
presumably other courts would -- would similarly say 
that the regulation is invalid.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Right.  And that was the 
point I was trying to make.  And if I -- if I could 
explain -- if I could explain the same point --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask -- may I ask 

this one follow-up question, because I want to be sure I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

understand your position.  Supposing the plaintiff in 
his declaration cites three or four cases in which the 
action was taken so promptly they didn't have notice in 
order to object.  And then he says but so -- they -- all 
this was too fast for me.  Now I want to -- want to do 
just what the plaintiffs are trying to do in this case. 
Would he have standing then?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  I -- I -- if there was -- if 
there was a category of cases in which that was likely 
to happen.  Most of the -- most of the -- he may well 
have standing in that situation to challenge maybe an 
upcoming -- it's an unusual APA suit because -- because 
only final agency action can be challenged, but 
conceivably a threatened final agency action --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  You would agree that with 
that scenario he would have standing if his only injury 
in this is exactly the same as the plaintiff in this 
case?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  No.  The injury would come 

from the threatened on-the-ground activity, not the 
actual --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  He doesn't know that in 

advance.  That is the premise of Justice Stevens's 
question, and it is the premise of mine.  There -- the 
point is being made by them that this happened so fast 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that the threat has been realized before they could 
respond to it.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  If -- if I -- if I could make 

a broader point here because there -- there may be 
certain categories, certain instances in which that 
might happen, but it is -- it is the exception, not the 
rule.  And -- and the --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  I will -- I will assume for 

sake of argument it is the exception, not the rule.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  But --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  Let's assume we have got 

the exceptional case.  Would there be standing?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  In -- in the exceptional case 

there probably would be standing.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  So that if in 

Justice Stevens's hypo one could show that there had 
been three or four or five instances of action so fast 
it was impossible to challenge it, there would with that 
as a predicate be standing to challenge the regulation 
as these people are trying to challenge it?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Not -- no, and that -- and 

that was the point I was --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.
 MR. KNEEDLER:  -- not -- not in the way they 

are trying to challenge it, because they are trying to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

challenge it across the board.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Tell us how they could 

challenge it, then?  Tell us the right way?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  What they would have to do is 

bring a -- a -- on a -- a particular national forest 
where a particular person visited and visited a 
particular area and there has been a pattern of 
particular activities that occurred without his knowing, 
he -- he -- in that situation he might well have 
standing to challenge a similar --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, if it's the forest 
next door that he is worried about and they have not 
tried a -- a -- a kind of quickie lumbering action in 
the forest next door before, he would not be able to 
challenge it.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  That's correct.  The -- the 

-- standing has to focus on the particular site-specific 
place where the individual has visited and if there is a 
repeated pattern of a similar type of activity that he 
doesn't know about and maybe --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Kneedler, why -- why 
-- why is that so?  I am reading this ARA statute, and 
it seems to give people a right to notice, an 
opportunity to comment, and to undertake an 
administrative appeal. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Why isn't this statute that says, interested 

public, you have those rights, you have essentially a 
right to a seat at the table, why isn't this statute 
like FOIA, like the statute that the Court considered in 
the Atkins case, in the FEC case involving information 
about APAC?

 These were people who said:  We are 

concerned about saving our forests.  That's why Congress 
said that before these actions occur, there should be 
notice to the interested public, comment, and we are 
being cut out from that seat at the table.  It doesn't 
do us any good after the project has been authorized. 
We want to be there when the decision is made to take 
action.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  If I could respond in several 

ways.  First of all, the due process clause imposes 
limitations on agency action, but that doesn't mean that 
-- that somebody can go into court and challenge agency 
procedures as violative of the due process clause until 
there is a specific proceeding going on and -- and 
completed in which there has been a violation.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But this statute says 

says before there is a specific action you have a right 
to notice, comment, and administrative procedures.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  There is no indication at all 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

in the passage of that statute that Congress meant to 
confer a judicially enforceable right to obtain those 
without complying with the usual APA provisions for 
judicial review.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Maybe he has no --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Suppose the statute says 
anybody in the country can sue to stop a violation of 
the due -- due process clause.  Would that statute be 
valid?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  No.  You -- you would have to 

-- you would have to show a particular injury and --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  The Article III 
requirements cannot be eliminated by Congress?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  That is -- that is correct. 
And -- and there is no indication at all that in this 
statute, which was just intended to modify the Forest 
Service's intent to change its internal decision-making 
processes -- and Congress wanted to restrict what --
what the Forest Service was going to do -- that it 
thereby meant to change the fundamental nature of the 
agency's own internal regulations which would not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Why is that different 

from FOIA?  I mean there anybody can request anything. 
You don't have to show anything beyond -- well, you only 
have to show curiosity.  You say:  The statute gives me 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

a right to ask for this information.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Well -- and the -- the Forest 
Service has -- has procedures for notifying people of --
of proposed projects that were in fact invoked in this 
case, and we point this out in our brief.  There are 
really two separate types of procedures.

 One is the so-called Schedule Of Proposed 
Actions, which includes all the actions in which there 
would be a decision memo issued by the Forest Service, 
which includes at least all of the projects that 
respondents are claiming should be -- should be covered. 
That is published quarterly.  It -- it is available on 
the web.  It is also available in person.  One of 
Respondents' declarants here on behalf of the Sierra 
Club says that by using that so-called SOPA, that 
schedule, he reviews every project in all 11 national 
forests in California.  There is also, in addition to 
the SOPA -- and will submit comments when necessary.

 In addition to the SOPA, the Forest Service 

has what are called scoping regulations which -- in 
which every on-the-ground project is looked at to see 
whether it needs -- there needs to be NEPA compliance 
through an EA or an EIS, but also what is the nature of 
public participation that is required.

 In that scoping process the Forest Service, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the -- the local personnel at the Forest Service, will 
look to see who is interested in the particular project. 
The way this works on the ground is an organization like 
the Sierra Club through its declarant in the -- in the 
joint appendix will have somebody monitoring this SOPA, 
the Schedule of Proposed Events, and will say:  I see 
that you have a -- a certain project listed.  I am 
interest in that.  Please notify me when you are about 
to take action to thin this -- this area or restore this 
burned area.  Please notify me.

 When that happens, the Forest Service then 
sends out a letter, a so-called scoping letter, asking 
for comments.  So this is not a situation in which the 
-- the organizations of the declarants in this case have 
been excluded.  To the contrary, these are all people 
who pay very, very close attention to what the Forest 
Service is doing.

 The one declarant on which the court of 

appeals relied for standing on page 71a of the -- of the 
petition appendix, he specifically refers -- the only 
specific projects he refers to are timber projects, and 
the injunction here goes much broader than timber 
projects -- but he said that for example, in the 
Allegheny National Forest they put out scoping comments 
for a series of 20 timber sales.  He knew about those 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

timber sales and he was able to comment on them.  And 
the -- the declarants on whom the standing was based to 
challenge the Burnt Ridge Project, which is no longer in 
this case, in that case the Forest Service -- and this 
is in the administrative record -- sent out 1,300 
letters to people who had expressed an interest in that 
project before it was undertaken.  Mr. Marderosian, who 
also monitors forest projects --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Could any one of those 

have brought suit?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Anyone -- anyone who claimed 
to have used that area could have brought suit.  Some of 
the -- some of those -- some of the people -- people 
submit comments.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But I mean -- but the 

letter alone, I don't know what the criteria were for 
the addresses.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Those were people who had 

expressed an interest in the -- in the project.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Oh, okay.  Okay.
 MR. KNEEDLER:  And Mr. Marderosian submitted 
a 23-page comment to the Forest Service with respect to 
the Burnt Ridge Project, and that is the other 
declarant.  These are people whose profession or 
avocation -- serious avocation is following the Forest 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Service.  So this is not an instance in which -- in 
which notice is not generally furnished.

 I would like to make the same point I was 

making about standing in connection with the -- with the 
Administrative Procedure Act as well.  Section 702 of 
the -- of the APA says that a person who is aggrieved by 
agency action is -- may seek judicial review thereof. 
The -- the agency action that is subject to judicial 
review has to be the agency action that causes the 
injury.  The procedural regulation does not cause the 
injury.  It is the on-the-ground activity, the 
site-specific decision -- the action, the agency action 
approving the site-specific action that causes the 
injury.  That is what the person is entitled to judicial 
review on.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Then you are saying that 
this statute is just unenforceable, because the statute 
is supposed to operate before the project?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  It's -- it's -- it's by no 
means unenforceable.  In the Burnt Ridge Project that 
was at issue in this -- in this case, the plaintiffs 
challenged the Burnt Ridge Project when it was completed 
on a number of grounds, that it was not properly 
categorically excluded from NEPA, that it didn't comply 
with the forest plan, but also that it had been approved 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

without complying with the -- with the ARA appeals 
procedures.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And that was before 

the project was undertaken?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Yes.  An injunction, a 

preliminary injunction was obtained, and tellingly, and 
I think this is also instructive for ripeness purposes, 
there was a PI issued but not because of a violation of 
the -- of the ARA; the district court concluded there 
was a likelihood of success on some of these other 
objections, substantive objections to the project, not 
procedural objections --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Ah, but --
MR. KNEEDLER:  -- and enjoined it and then 
the Forest Service went through the project and the --
and the plaintiffs dropped their challenge.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  And I am pursuing this, but 

I'm actually having a hard time with this.  Suppose --
suppose Congress passes a statute; the statute says 
every citizen of the United States has a right to 
receive notice of a certain set of Forest Service 
actions.  Everybody.  We want everybody who wants it to 
have notice.

 Now, if somebody really wants that notice 

and they don't get it, can they sue? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. KNEEDLER:  At some point that would 

begin to look like FOIA, yes.  But --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.  Sorry.
 MR. KNEEDLER:  But --
JUSTICE BREYER:  In any case, I'm trying to 

make it look like FOIA.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  But --
JUSTICE BREYER:  That's just what I am 

trying to do, and you say yes, they probably could, at 
least if you are just supposed to get a piece of paper 
that says "Notice."  Now suppose Congress says, if you 
can show you are the kind of person who regularly asks 
and needs such notices, and if a regulation is 
promulgated interpreting this statute, you can challenge 
that reg prior to enforcement.  Now does that violate 
Article III?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  I believe it -- I believe it 

probably does, unless you can show that there is an 
imminent --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Suppose they did this. 
Suppose they said each agency has the legal power to 
promulgate regs interpreting FOIA as to when you get the 
thing, and when you don't, and moreover people who are 
regular FOIA requesters can challenge those regs prior 
to enforcement; what about that one? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. KNEEDLER:  Conceivably.  But I -- what 

-- what I --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I am looking for a 

principle that is going to help me.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Congress has not done that 

here and this is why I wanted to shift to the APA, 
because this is subject to review under the general 
standards of the APA.  Even if we can assume that there 
would be Article III standing to challenge a 
threatened -- a threatened, another one in a series of 
similar projects like off-road vehicle use or something 
which might occur before someone would be able to -- to 
-- to challenge it, that doesn't apply to timber 
projects and other things that take much longer to plan.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Kneedler, I don't even 

agree with you that a -- that a citizen-wide notice 
provision confers standing, because it's close to the 
APA.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  No, I didn't say --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Close -- close to the FOIA. 

In FOIA, an individual citizen demands a certain 
document which the law entitles that person to.  This is 
a concrete deprivation --

MR. KNEEDLER:  Right.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of something concrete. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

And --

MR. KNEEDLER:  I didn't -- I didn't -- I 
didn't mean to concede that there would be standing.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, I thought you were 

doing it.  And I certainly don't --

MR. KNEEDLER:  No, because you are right. 

And here the agency's procedures allow somebody to 
request to be put on the mailing list about a particular 
project.  And that's the way you make it -- make it 
known and in fact that happened here.  And also the one 
declarant -- it's perhaps instructive, the only other 
kind of notice other than this sort of situation where a 
person says I want to be notified when a particular 
project is going -- is going to take place, the only 
other form of notice is publication in a local newspaper 
of record that each national forest has which shows that 
this is -- that this notice provision is localized with 
respect to people who are going to be aware of what's 
going on in the forest and who are following it.  But 
the declarant Mr. Bensman, when -- for another purpose 
is noticing or is pointing out this publication 
requirement in a local newspaper, says that his 
organization doesn't want to subscribe to local 
newspapers, that would be too much of a burden for them 
to have to follow what is going on in newspapers. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

That's the -- that's the only kind of 

additional notice the statute ever provides for.  The 
other kind of notice is the notice you get if you 
previously expressed an interest in the project, in 
which you basically demanded something along the FOIA 
lines that Justice Scalia was referring to.

 But again, back to -- back to the -- you 
call it ripeness, you call it the proper subject of 
judicial review as this Court said in National Wildlife 
Federation, based on section 702 of the APA, ordinarily 
a regulation may be challenged only when it has been 
reduced to manageable proportions by a concrete 
application of the regulation to the individual's 
particular circumstances.  It's the application to the 
person's circumstances that gets challenged.  In this 
context, it would be the application of the regulation 
that says there is no right of appeal in connection with 
the approval of a site-specific activity.  If you think 
the project was approved in violation of the ARA because 
you weren't given a right -- after you got your notice 
you weren't given a right to appeal, then you could 
challenge that in court on the ground that it was 
approved without following the agency's procedures.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Your friend on the 
other side says that that doesn't make too much sense 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

because the issue in every case is going to be the same, 
a purely legal issue, and so waiting for the application 
doesn't make any sense.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, I don't think it is a 
purely legal issue.  The Respondents concede that not 
all projects are subject to this statute, and the 
district court --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The question is where do 

you draw the line?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  And that -- that's why it 

can't be purely a legal question.  As soon as you -- and 
the district court acknowledged that environmentally 
insignificant projects are not covered by the act, and 
so that requires them an as-applied determination as to 
whether a particular type of project or even the 
particular project is one that is -- that is covered by 
the act.  And not only that --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought that you said 

the government's position is that the line is to be 
drawn for cases that don't require either an EIS or an 
EA.  Those -- in those cases you don't have to do this 
notice, comment, appeal thing.  And I thought the other 
side is saying, no, that's the wrong place to draw the 
line.  It would be the same thing in every case, from 
the government's point of view, no environmental impact 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

statement, no environmental assessment required, no 
notice and comment.  And they are saying you put the 
line in the wrong place.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  But -- but that doesn't 
answer where the line ought to be.  And even if the 
government is wrong as to a particular project, that 
means the line has to be somewhere else.  It may be that 
certain kinds of timber projects should be subject to 
appeal but that doesn't mean that some other road 
maintenance project should be subject to appeal.

 If I may reserve the balance of my time.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Kneedler.

 Mr. Kenna.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATT KENNA,
 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS

 MR. KENNA:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court.

 This facial challenge to the Appeals Reform 

Act regulations could have been brought outside the 
context of the Burnt Ridge Project, as long as we had 
shown that it had been applied to a project and 
continued to be applied to the plaintiffs on an ongoing 
basis.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What if there -- what if 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there was not a regulation on this subject, but the 
agency, by its constant practice, applies a certain 
procedure in all of these cases, would you have it  --
the power in the abstract to challenge the agency's 
consistent application of a certain procedure?

 You could certainly do it in a particular 

case, if the agency did something that was unlawful, you 
could certainly challenge it?  But let's assume you 
don't have a particular case, you just object to the 
fact that in all of its cases the agency is doing this 
thing that is wrong.

 Will you have standing to challenge that?
 MR. KENNA:  The question of rightness in 
standing need to be treated a little differently for 
that. As far as the rightness question I think it would 
be a much more difficult case than here, but I would 
think could you do that.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You would have standing?
 MR. KENNA:  You would have to show, as Your 

Honor is indicating --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Your complaint is I don't 

like the way the agency behaves?

 MR. KENNA:  Not on that pure basis.  No. 

You would have to show that -- or we would have to show 
some concrete harm from where it's been applied. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why do you make a 

difference with respect to the regulation?  Why does the 
mere fact that this agency lawlessness happens to be 
reflected in a regulation, why does that suddenly alter 
the standing calculation?  You either have been harmed 
or you haven't been harmed.

 MR. KENNA:  Justice Scalia, I don't think it 

changes the standing calculation.  I think it does 
change the rightness and final agency action especially 
question somewhat, makes it much more clear.  But we 
don't rely on procedural injury here.  Even though I 
think there is potentially room for it along the lines 
of Freedom of Information Act.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The Ninth Circuit 

relied on it at least as an alternative ground, correct?

 MR. KENNA:  Well, I think what the Ninth 

Circuit did was similar to what the court did recently 
in the Winkelman v. Parma School District case where 
most of the discussion was about the procedural harms 
that the parents of the autistic school children were 
suffering.  There was only one brief sentence tying it 
to the concrete harm, but it did tie it to the concrete 
harm.  And I think that's what the Ninth Circuit did 
here.  And certainly the district court very much went 
into tying the procedural harm to the on the ground 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

harm, and that's what it based its decision on.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, to read 
just one sentence to you from the National Wildlife 
Federation case, because I think it's the biggest hurdle 
you face.  It's on page 15 of the government's brief. 
It says:  "A regulation is not ordinarily consider the 
type of agency action ripe for judicial review under the 
APA until the scope of the controversy has been reduced 
to more manageable proportions and it's factual 
components flushed out by some concrete action applying 
the regulation to the claimant's situation."

 It seems like a high hurdle for you to 

surmount.

 MR. KENNA:  Mr. Chief Justice, I think that 
needs to be read in combination with the footnote 2 to 
that decision, which says of course if you have a 
regulation applying a particular measure across the 
board  --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That's the Abbott 

Labs exception, isn't it?  I don't think anybody 
suggests that that is applicable here.

 MR. KENNA:  No, I don't think that's the --

I think the Abbott labs exception is an exception to 
where the plaintiff cannot show that the regulation has 
been applied to its situation yet. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But that's when his 

primary conduct is nonetheless going to be affected?

 MR. KENNA:  Right.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You know, the drug 

companies have to do something.  Well, they don't -- you 
know, they have to do it before they can  -- they don't 
have to wait until they are sent to jail to say that 
their conduct has been affected.

 MR. KENNA:  Yes.  But I think where as here 
the regulation has been applied to the plaintiffs on an 
ongoing basis, it's conceded that it was applied 
thousands of times nationwide.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But you have not 

pointed to a particular fact under any of these 
affidavits when it was applied to any of the plaintiffs. 
In what the National Wildlife Federation case said, 
"Some concrete action applying the regulation to the 
claimant's situation. "

 MR. KENNA:  We have the Burnt Ridge Project 

itself.  And then once we have shown standing, it 
becomes a matter of mootness.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You haven't shown 

any standing with respect to the Burnt Ridge Project on 
an ongoing basis because that has been settled.  It's 
outweighed -- it's out the door. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. KENNA:  Right.  I think the court's 

initial standing analysis is at the time the complaint 
is filed.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So it's in for a 

penny, in for a pound.  If you show standing with 
respect to discreet action D, you can challenge A, B, 
and C?

 MR. KENNA:  No, Your Honor, I would 

respectfully say that the focus is on the beginning. 
And then as the -- as this Court said last term in Davis 
v. FEC, then it becomes a matter of mootness, and 
between that case and the Laidlaw case, that is a lower 
hurdle.  So once we had the standing -- and the 
Marderosian declaration is worth looking at, because it 
talks about harm from the Burnt Ridge Project itself, 
which the government concedes, as well as from 
application of the regulations to be denied notice, 
comment and appeal throughout the Sequoia National 
Forest.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  I think you never completed 

your answer in commenting on the National Wildlife 
Federation statement with reference to footnote 2.  What 
is it that footnote 2 tells us in light of which we must 
read what the Chief Justice quoted?

 MR. KENNA:  Well, the footnote 2 says, of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

course, if you have a particular regulation applied to a 
particular -- to a category of circumstances across the 
board, of course you may challenge it.  And I think  --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is that all it says?  No, I 

think it speaks of categories across the board that 
affect  -- that immediately, concretely affect the 
person complaining of the regulation, which is the case 
in these areas where you have a regulation requiring 
drug companies to have certain -- on pain of criminal 
penalty to print certain things on labels.  That 
immediately affects them.

 I think that is what footnote 2 is about, 

not about -- not about any regulation that is across the 
board.  That wouldn't make any sense.

 Where is footnote 2.  Let's read it.
 (Laughter.)
 MR. KENNA:  There is many cases where it was 
not an effect on primary conduct yet a facial challenge 
was permitted.  In fact, this Court has never rejected 
before a facial challenge to a regulation that is 
published in the Code of Federal Regulations where it 
has been applied on an ongoing basis.

 So, in Sullivan v. Zebley, it was child 

disability benefits, it was a benefit referring 
regulation, which said we see no reason to force as 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

applied challenges instead of a facial challenge.

 You have Thomas v. Union Carbide, which was 

not a regulation telling Union Carbide how it had to 
manufacture its pesticides, but rather how it would 
affect arbitration -- it's arbitration when it got into 
disputes, which is like National Park's case, which was 
held unright not because of that fact, but because it 
had not yet been applied.

 When you look at all of these cases that 

rejects facial challenge where either the regulation has 
been applied and has not  -- and then the court gets to 
the question of whether it affects primary conduct.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  The problem they are asking 

you on this -- it was at least a problem for me  -- I 
think it's tough on rightness is because the government 
is saying here:  Look, you want to challenge it outside 
the context of a particular action that you don't like. 
Well, there's never going to be an action, never going 
to be such an action that we are going to take that you 
won't find out about, that you will not be able to 
challenge in that context if you are really hurt.  There 
isn't one.  You can't name one that's ever been or 
imagine one that ever will be, okay?

 Now, is that so?
 MR. KENNA:  No, Justice Breyer, that's not 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

so.  The joint appendix at page 101 discusses an 
instance where Mr. Bensman did not get notice at all.

 The issue with --
JUSTICE BREYER:  You see where they are 

going next.  And if you -- suppose that the thing you 
just told me, too, has problems or suppose it's pretty 
hard to find one, then the -- why this has never been 
decided and why it's difficult.  Because I would start 
with Abbott Labs and say there are three considerations. 
How easy is it now to solve the legal problem?  Here? 
Perfectly easy.  Nothing's going to change.

 Factor two, how likely is it that they will 

work with this legal rule and change it around here? 
Zero.

 But three, what kind of harm is it going to 

cause to the plaintiff if you were to deny him relief 
now?  And they are saying here that's also zero or next 
to zero.  So what do you do if the factor that cuts one 
way is zero and the factor that cuts the other way is 
zero, or near zero?

 Now, I have to admit I have never seen a 

case on that.  I don't know if there has been one 
before, and I don't know exactly what to do.  And if you 
can go read the appendix, maybe I can escape the zero.
 MR. KENNA:  Well, I think even apart from 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the appendix, even apart from the assertion that there 
are -- the fact that there are certain actions that will 
receive no notice, I think the fact of the matter is we 
did what the court has instructed us to do, and that is 
we brought a facial challenge in a concrete example with 
the Burnt Ridge timber sale project.  Now, it's passed. 
Now it becomes a question of mootness, and I think the 
mootness question is easier to solve because the Court 
has said that it's a lesser hurdle than standing, and we 
have shown through the Bensman declaration that it's 
continuing to be applied to the plaintiffs on an ongoing 
basis, that they suffer harm by not being able to get 
these procedures which caused them on-the-ground harm 
because the forest is not protected as well as it would 
be with it.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, I now have 
footnote 2, and it refers, as you say, to a particular 
measure that applies across the board to all individual 
classifications.  It goes on to say, which is final, 
"and has become ripe for review in the manner we 
discussed in the text." Then we say, or Justice Scalia 
says, "it can of course be challenged under the APA by a 
person adversely affected.  And although that may have 
the effect when they get a general decision invalidating 
a program, it says that a quite different from 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

permitting a generic challenge to all aspects of the 
program as though that itself constituted a final agency 
action."

 So you still have to become ripe for review 
in the manner discussed, which was the sentence that I 
read to you earlier, and the challenge can only be 
brought by a person adversely affected.  I don't see how 
footnote 2 undermines the sentence I have read to you at 
all.

 MR. KENNA:  Well, in that footnote, it's 
saying it's quite different from permitting a generic 
challenge to all aspects of the land-withdrawal review 
program.  And I think that was the problem in Ohio 
Forestry, where you had this broad program left with 
facts to sort through and apply, but the opinion in Ohio 
Forestry said, of course, though, if the plan had cut 
out someone's right to object to trees being cut, that 
would be the kind of action that would be challengeable. 
And so I think what that later part is talking about, in 
National Wildlife is saying, this isn't the kind of 
action we allow challenges to.  It's not final agency 
action.  It's not --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, it says -- it 

says, if it's become ripe for review in the manner 
discussed in text.  In other words, if it has been 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

applied to a particular individual adversely affected 
then, quote, "a person adversely affected may bring a 
challenge. " And I don't -- that seems to me to be a 
restatement of the sentence I read you earlier.

 MR. KENNA:  But that gets us to the standing 

question.  And here the Marderosian declaration showed 
he was affected both with regard to the Burnt Ridge 
Project and other projects on the Sequoia National 
Forest.  We have the Bensman declaration that talks 
about how he was harmed in his local forest from not 
being able to comment on timber sales, and we have the 
subsequent declarations.

 And I would also point out in the Lujan v. 

Defenders case, both in the note 8 and Justice Kennedy's 
concurrence, there's a discussion about how, in 
Robertson v. Methow Valley, for instance, a standing 
declaration didn't even need to be raised because it was 
obvious that,  in that case, that the plaintiffs were 
amongst the injured because they were a local group in 
their local forest.

 You know, here we have an assertion 

uncontroverted by the government that these are being 
applied on every forest on an ongoing basis -- it's 
stipulated to that.  To contend that the Sierra Club is 
not injured, especially in light of the declarations 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that we've submitted --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That would be like 

in footnote 2, the general program.  Yes, they are 
saying these types of activities we don't do the notice 
and comment and appeal.  That's the general program. 
But you have to wait until it's applied to a particular 
individual who is adversely affected.

 MR. KENNA:  Well, all I can say, Your Honor, 

is I thought we did that by bringing it in the context 
of the Burnt Ridge sale and then it's a matter of --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  If you had had a ruling 

on where you draw the line in the Burnt Ridge case, then 
that would have been precedent for all these other 
cases, but it was settled, right, so you didn't get a 
determination?

 MR. KENNA:  Yes, Your Honor, we never 

brought an as-applied challenge to these regulations in 
the context of the Burnt Ridge sale.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But you are seeking a 

different line.  And, by the way, I don't know what the 
line is that you are seeking.  But the government says 
if you don't need an EA, then you don't have to give 
notice, comment, et cetera.  What would be your standard 
for when you need notice and comment?

 MR. KENNA:  Well, it's right in the language 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of the Appeals Reform Act.  There are two parts that are 
important.  One is, it says, "a proposed decision 
implementing a forest plan shall be made subject to 
notice and comment."  And then section C states that 
"any decision approving such an action shall be subject 
to appeal."  So you have two elements:  That there is a 
decision approving something and it implements a forest 
plan.

 Now, that's the way it worked under the 

Forest Service before the Appeals Reform Act was passed 
and what Congress meant to keep in place substantively 
with a different procedure through the ARA.  So a 
Christmas tree permit, for instance, an original 
Christmas tree permit is exempt, not because it's 
insignificant.  We've never conceded, and that's what 
the whole merits were about, that it's --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You need a permit to have a 

Christmas tree?  Where is this?

 (Laughter.)
 MR. KENNA:  I'm sorry, Your Honor.  So if 

you want to go and cut your own Christmas tree --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I know what you're talking 

about.

 MR. KENNA:  You know, I get one every year. 
I just go down to the local Kreger's hardware store; I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

pay my $7 to the clerk.  There's no exercise of 
discretion, and you can you go and cut your own tree. 
Now, that is exempt, not because it's environmentally 
insignificant, which, you know, it probably is in most 
cases, but because there is no decision approving it. 
And that's the way it has always worked, and that's 
where we think the line needs to be drawn, although, of 
course, the merits were not raised by the government 
here.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You cut down a tree 

in the national forest without approval?

 (Laughter.)
 MR. KENNA:  I did get the permit, Your 

Honor.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Oh.
 (Laughter.)
 MR. KENNA:  I think the other kinds of cases 

that are useful to look at are, for instance, Blum v. 
Yaretsky for standing, and that was the nursing home 
case where nursing home residents that had been denied 
-- they had been sent to lesser nursing home facilities, 
they were on assistance -- challenged the way in which 
that was being handled.  And the Court said, you know, 
the historical basis for these plaintiffs is that they 
have been denied their -- they have been in these 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

situations and it's perfectly likely that they are going 
to be in again.  Another case would be the Northeastern 
Florida Chapter of Contractors v. Jacksonville case, 
which I am afraid we did not put in our brief, but that 
was where victims of reverse discrimination had been 
regular bidders on construction contracts, and they were 
held to have standing because it was obvious they were 
going to suffer these harms again and there was not even 
a discussion of the declarations.  Here, we --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's not unusual.  I 

mean, standing looks not just to harm that has already 
been suffered but to harm that is imminent.  And if 
these people are regular bidders and they say, you know, 
I'm likely to bid on this next project, that's fine. 
But these people are -- you don't know any specific 
project.  They are just people interested in forests 
throughout the United States.

 MR. KENDALL:  Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's quite different from 

saying, "I am about to suffer harm, imminent harm, to 
me."  I don't see anything -- you know, anything except 
in the case that was settled that has that kind of a 
connection.

 MR. KENNA:  Well, Justice Scalia, I would 
suggest that the way those two cases I discussed the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

plaintiffs were treated is similar to here, where you 
have members who -- it's uncontroverted that they are 
constantly using the national forests and commenting on 
forest appeals.  And we have a reference to 20 specific 
timber sales.  They weren't mentioned by name, but it's 
always been this Court's jurisprudence to elevate form 
-- I mean, elevate substance over form -- so it's not a 
creative pleading exercise that can either get you in or 
out of standing; it's a commonsense inquiry.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Tell me the two cases again 

that you are relying on for this.

 MR. KENNA:  Blum v. Yaretsky, and that we 

cite in our brief; and then Northeastern Florida Chamber 
of Contractors v. Jacksonville.  That's a 1993 case.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And what's that?  What's 

the cite for it?

 MR. KENNA:  508 U.S. 656 1993.
 Now, getting back to the ripeness issue in 

particular, as we go through the list of cases, it seems 
that the facial challenges have always been permitted in 
situations similar to this.  The key question is, has it 
been applied?  So National Parks Conservation 
Association hasn't been applied.  No prediction that it 
might be applied, therefore not ripe.  Thomas v. Union 
Carbide, I think, is particularly instructive because 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there the case preceding that was held unripe because 
there had not yet been an arbitration under the federal 
insecticide law.  But by the time the case came to the 
Court, there had been an arbitration that had passed, 
and on that basis the Court said yes, this is a ripe 
controversy because here it's been applied, and there 
was no finding of mootness even though that arbitration 
was done, and that's the same situation that we have 
here.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Can I go back to standing 

for a minute.

 MR. KENNA:  Yes, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  You may have looked this up 

and may have found something here.

 Suppose an organization that has a purely 

ideological interest, so it can't get into Federal 
court, nonetheless can go before an agency; but they are 
not going to get into Federal court.  Now, suppose that 
agency then has a reg that they think is lawful and 
makes their life more difficult.  I guess that the fact 
that they suffer a procedural injury would not get them 
into court.  They are already somebody who doesn't; they 
don't.  So I can imagine cases saying that.

 Contrast that with the case with a person 

who has a very concrete specific injury, a terrible 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

allergy to chemical X, and they often litigate that 
there is too much chemical X, and now they are before an 
agency and they frequently complain about chemical X, 
but they don't have a particular case, but they will 
often be there.  Now, the agency promulgates a 
procedural regulation that hurts those people who 
normally have a concrete injury.  All right?  There I 
wonder if that purely procedural injury cannot serve as 
a basis for standing.

 Now, do the cases ask -- so I am contrasting 
the two kinds of questions, and I wonder what you found 
in the cases as to the second kind, as opposed to the 
first kind; and you are free to answer this as one word 
"nothing; go look it up yourself, which is a fair 
comment.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. KENNA:  Well, Justice Breyer, you know, 
of course our case is not that typical because we think 
we have on the --

JUSTICE BREYER:  You think you are like the 

second?

 MR. KENNA:  Right.  I think there is room 

under the -- so the FEC v. Atkins cases is the 
informational injury case.  Then there is the Havens 
case which stated that groups that sought to fight 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

redlining in loaning for -- discriminatorily loaning in 
neighborhoods had organizational standing, not 
representational as we claim here through our members, 
but actual representation in and of themselves.  And I 
think when you combine those cases together, I think 
there is some room for that finding that there is that 
injury.

 But I would -- I would point out here that 
the -- we don't claim it, and even though the court of 
appeals, again, talks quite a bit about it, it 
ultimately tied it back.  And even if it didn't do a job 
that this Court found to be sufficient, I think the 
focus really has to be on the district court, as that is 
what originally looked at the declarations and did a 
very good job of discussing the on-the-ground injuries 
suffered combined with procedural injuries.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Can I ask you about 

Northeastern Florida?  I have dug that out.  I don't 
think it -- it supports what you say.  In its complaint 
what was going on here is that there was a -- a minority 
business preference adopted by the City of Jacksonville, 
and some contractors who were not minorities sued saying 
that this was in -- in violation of the Constitution.
 And what happened -- what the Court said 

about standing was in its complaint petitioner alleged 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that many of its members regularly bid on and perform 
construction works.  Now, if it had stopped there it 
might fit your case, but then it went on to say, "and 
that they would have bid on designated set-aside 
contracts but for the restrictions imposed."

 As I read the case there were designated 

contracts, of which they said we would have bid on them 
but we didn't because of this -- what the case involved 
was the assertion by the city that you don't have 
standing unless you can show you would have been awarded 
the contract.  And we said, no, no, you don't have to be 
awarded it, but if indeed you were -- you would have 
been a bidder in that contract but for this law, that's 
enough for standing.

 So that's not this case.
 MR. KENNA:  But I think the record supports 

the same kind of assertion.  So, for instance, if you 
look at Tim Bensman's declaration at page 71a of the 
petition appendix, it says how on those timber sales he 
would have commented and appealed them if he was given 
the opportunity, and he would like to go back there if 
he could preserve the quality of those areas that he 
visited.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And where is 

"there"?  He would like to go back where? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. KENNA:  He would like to go back to the 

areas in -- where those 20 timber sales are, some of 
which he had been to before and would like to return to. 
And I -- and the supplemental declarations, when this 
came up again and the government pressed, because they 
asked for more specifics, those specifics were provided.
 And so, for instance, at the joint appendix 
at page 90 you have Eric Wiberg using the Weiser River 
drainage and talking about he wasn't going to get notice 
of that.  Only because he happened to be personally 
familiar with the area was he able to communicate his 
views to the Forest Service, and it actually ended up 
changing what the Forest Service did because he just 
happened to find out and he happened to know it.  So 
that's a specific --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  This isn't one of 

those after-submitted declarations, is it?

 MR. KENNA:  That -- that latest one I 

referred to is.  Yes, Your Honor.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, don't we 

generally not look at after-submitted declarations in 
determining standing?

 MR. KENNA:  Your Honor, I don't think that 

is correct.  I think the Court can look at any documents 
in the record which show standing at the time of the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

suit.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So if you -- if 

yesterday you submitted a declaration, we would look at 
that?

 MR. KENNA:  Well, the cases that the 

government provided for rejecting declarations were 
offers submitted to this Court or certainly an appellate 
court and I agree that is more problematic, or it would 
have been more problematic if the district court had 
excluded the documents and said it's not going to look 
at them.  We would be looking at an abuse of discretion 
standard as was at issue in Lujan v National Wildlife 
Federation.  But certainly when a, an appellate court 
takes up a record from a district court it is entitled 
to look at all the evidence submitted and especially 
when it's a case like standing -- or an issue like 
standing where it's a constitutional question that is 
important and you may look at all the circumstances --
there is no reason to reject a later filed declaration.

 But again, we don't rely on those alone.  We 

think it's the totality of everything that supports --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The later filed, 
where along the district court proceedings were they 
filed?

 MR. KENNA:  They were submitted -- after the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

judgment setting aside the regulations, there was 
litigation over the government's stay motion pending 
appeal.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So if you lose that 
again, you figure, well, I've got some more -- I can get 
some more declarations.  The reason we don't look at 
after-submitted declarations is because there has to be 
under the normal rule, an end to litigation at a 
particular time.  It seems to me this would be an 
endless process.  You know, every time the district 
court identifies a particular flaw, you would say okay, 
here's a declaration, and then they say, well, here's 
another basis, well, here's another declaration.  I'm 
not sure that that's what our cases sanction.

 MR. KENNA:  Well, the -- the district court 
didn't find a flaw.  It found that we had standing.  It 
was -- the government reiterated its standing argument 
in the context of the stay.  This essentially opened the 
door by arguing again, "hey, you have no standing," in 
addition to "we should get a stay because of the 
equities."  And so it seems perfectly appropriate in 
that circumstance to submit additional declarations.  We 
didn't just file them out of the blue because we 
thought --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You filed them after 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

judgment, right?

 MR. KENNA:  We did.  But they -- I think 

also the issue is there's been the many decisions of the 
Court which say, you know, standing after the fact isn't 
going to do you any good.  And what I think it's 
important to keep clear here is that the declarations 
were later filed, but they referred to events going on 
before the judgment came down.

 So, we have declarations at the time of the 
complaint, very specific; the government concedes they 
are very specific; they talked about both the Burnt 
Ridge sale and the regulation.  We have the Bensman 
declaration at the time of the merits consideration, 
which showed the case was not moot, that he was still 
being subjected to these regulations and being denied 
notice and comment.  And then we have additional 
declarations after the fact of the government -- I'm 
sorry of the district court's decision, which buttressed 
all of the above.

 And it seems appropriate under that 

circumstance in light of the statements by the Court 
that I discussed in the Defenders case and elsewhere, 
that standing is a practical inquiry, that standing 
should be found in such circumstances.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Do you want to say a word 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

about the Ninth Circuit making a law for the entire 
nation, on a controversial question that normally the 
court would just rule for its own area?

 MR. KENNA:  Well, I think there is a 
difference, Your Honor, between setting aside a 
regulation under the Administrative Procedure Act and 
what would normally be some sort of nationwide 
injunction such as where you had, say, challenged a 
local timber -- local forest service district for not 
analyzing NEPA correctly, and the Court not only set 
aside that action but said, and "oh, by the way anywhere 
else in the country that's doing it like this, you are 
enjoined, too."

 I think it's a very different question where 
you have a regulation that's being challenged under the 
APA.  And it's always been the Court's assumption that 
setting aside a regulation, which the APA commands a 
district court to do, also using its discretion, means 
that it is set aside without geographic limitation.  And 
so I think, you know, the Ninth Circuit may have said a 
bit much to saying it was compelled by the text of the 
APA but I do believe the district court properly weighed 
the Mendoza interests.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 MR. KENNA:  Thank you, Your Honors. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Kneedler, you 

have three minutes.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER,

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Several points, Mr. Chief 

Justice.

 First, the Burnt Ridge Project illustrates 

the way that we think an issue like this should be 
resolved and shows why the sentence from National 
Wildlife Federation that you quoted, Mr. Chief Justice, 
disposes of the case, and that is that a regulation --
particularly a procedural regulation whose only 
relevance is in an agency proceeding for approving a 
site-specific activity -- that can only be challenged in 
connection with that site-specific activity.  That's 
what the sentence in National Wildlife Federation was 
driving at; that is what Section 702 says; when you can 
challenge the agency action that aggrieves you and that 
is consistent with what the Court said in National 
Wildlife Federation, that a -- a court should intervene 
only when and to the extent that someone is harmed. 
This regulation can only harm someone in connection 
with --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  That is not what it says. 

It says this is our ordinary practice it doesn't say 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it's the limit on our practice.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  He was talking about 

injunction.  I was talking about --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  I thought you were talking 

about --

MR. KNEEDLER:  -- ripeness under the APA but 

it ties in -- it ties into the injunctive relief if I 
just could address that for a moment.

 Injunctive relief is -- is discretionary and 
Section 702 of the APA says nothing in the statute limit 
a court's ability to deny relief on appropriate 
equitable grounds.  And this is best illustrated by the 
-- suppose a regulation was challenged by the defendant 
in a criminal conviction and the plaintiff says the 
regulation is invalid on its face.  The APA says set it 
aside, but surely the district court dismissing that 
indictment would not be setting aside the regulation on 
a nationwide basis.  The effect of a declaratory 
judgment even one rendered in the course of dismissing 
an indictment, if you call that a declaration, is -- is 
governed by the law of judgments, not by -- not by a 
court reaching out and extending its ruling to people 
and forests and projects that are not before -- not 
before the Court.

 And the Burnt Ridge Project shows the way in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

which this could be challenged.  A particular project 
where there was not an appeal, if someone wants to 
object to the project on that ground or any other 
ground, he -- he can challenge that project, and there 
may be other grounds on which that project might be 
invalid which is an additional reason not to anticipate 
a legal defect but to -- but to wait until it's applied.
 The final thing I wanted to say is about the 

claim of procedural injury and that this might be like 
FOIA or something like this.  I think it's instructive 
that the -- that the ARA is not written in terms of 
conferring rights on individuals.  It's a direction to 
the Forest Service to prepare a -- to establish an 
appeal mechanism, in other words, do what the agency 
normally does to establish procedures for administering 
things.  There is certainly nothing in the text that 
suggests that it was intended to confer the 
extraordinary sort of right of immediate access to the 
court for purely procedural grounds.  It was just meant 
to fine-tune the agency's own internal administrative 
procedures, which Section 706 of the APA makes clear can 
only be challenged in a challenge to the final agency 
action in which the procedures are applied.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you Mr. 

Kneedler.  The case is submitted. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

(Whereupon, at 12:07 p.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

Abbott 29:19,23 

34:9 

ability 53:11 
able 13:14 18:1 

22:12 33:20 
35:12 37:11 
47:11 

above-entitled 

1:12 55:2 
absent 9:23 
abstract 27:4 
abuse 48:11 
access 54:18 
account 7:15 
acknowledged 

25:12 

act 3:15 19:5 

25:13,17 26:20 
28:13 39:1,10 
51:6 

action 8:20,21 
10:8,11,12,13 
10:17 11:3,13 
11:14 12:17 
13:13 14:14,17 
14:23 17:9 
19:7,8,9,12,12 
19:13 28:9 
29:7,10 30:17 
31:6 33:17,18 
33:19 36:3,18 
36:21,22 39:5 
51:11 52:18 
54:23 

actions 3:23 9:1 

14:9 16:8,8 
20:22 35:2 

activities 3:21 

9:18 13:8 38:4 

activity 4:5,10 

9:24 11:20 
13:19 19:11 
24:18 52:14,15 

actual 11:21 

45:4 

addition 16:17 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

16:19 49:20 

additional 24:2 

49:22 50:16 
54:6 

1:15 

appellate 48:7 

Ah 7:24 20:13 
aims 5:6 
AL 1:3,7 
allegations 4:24  appendix 4:23 
17:5,20 34:1 
34:24 35:1 
46:19 47:7 

48:13 

address 53:8 
addresses 18:17  alleged 45:25 
administering 

5:2 

54:15 

administrative 
3:15 4:1 13:25 
14:24 18:5 
19:5 51:6 
54:20 

admit 34:21 
adopted 45:21 
advance 9:19 

11:23 

Allegheny 17:24 
allergy 44:1 
allow 8:13,23 
23:7 36:21 

alter 28:4 
alternative 

28:15 

amazed 6:24 
analysis 31:2 
analyzing 51:10 
announcement 

8:20 

advantage 5:12 
adversely 35:23  answer 7:3,17 
7:19,24 9:2 
26:5 31:21 
44:13 

36:7 37:1,2 
38:7 

affect 32:6,6 

affidavit 4:7 6:4  anticipate 54:6 
affidavits 30:15 
affirmance 3:11 
affirmed 4:11 
afraid 41:4 
after-submitted 
47:17,21 49:7 

29:20 

19:6 22:6,8,18 
24:10 29:8 
35:22 51:16,17 
51:22 53:6,10 
53:15 54:21 

agency 5:9 

applicable 4:1 

4:11 29:21 

application 6:17 
9:21 24:13,14 
24:16 25:2 
27:5 31:17 
applied 8:17 

26:22,23 27:25 
29:25 30:10,11 
30:15 32:1,22 
33:1,8,11 
35:11 37:1,23 
38:6 42:22,23 
42:24 43:6 
54:7,23 

29:17 30:17 
appropriate 
49:21 50:20 
53:11 

approval 24:18 

40:11 

11:13,14 14:17 
14:18 19:7,8,9  APAC 14:6 
19:12 21:21 
27:2,7,10,22 
28:3,9 29:7 
36:2,21 43:17 
43:19 44:3,5 
52:13,18 54:14 
54:22 

apart 34:25 35:1  approve 3:20 
appeal 4:1 5:10 

approved 19:25 

24:19,23 

6:5 13:25 
24:17,21 25:22  approving 19:13 
26:9,10 31:18 
38:5 39:6 49:3 
54:2,14 

39:5,7 40:5 
52:13 

ARA 13:22 20:1 

areas 32:8 46:22 

47:2

arguing 49:19
argument 1:13

2:2,7 3:4,7 
6:15 9:8,10
12:9 26:15
49:17 52:3
Article 3:13

5:14,21 6:16 
6:19 7:15,20
15:12 21:16
22:9

aside 49:1 51:5 

51:11,17,19
53:16,17
asked 47:6
asking 17:12

33:13

asks 21:12
aspects 36:1,12
assertion 35:1
37:21 46:9,17

assess 8:10
assessment 26:1
assistance 40:22

42:23

assume 9:9 12:8 

12:11 22:8
27:8

assumption

as-applied 25:14

51:16

38:17

44:23

Atkins 14:5

attention 17:16
authorized

14:12

33:5 

answers 9:3 

applies 27:2 

anybody 15:7,23  apply 22:13 

35:18 

36:15 

APA 11:12 15:3  applying 29:10  Association

agency's 15:21 

23:7 24:23 
27:4 54:20 

aggrieved 19:6 
aggrieves 52:18 
agree 11:15 
22:16 48:8 

appealed 46:20 
appeals 4:22 
17:19 20:1 
26:19 39:1,10 
42:4 45:10 
appear 7:19 
APPEARAN... 

20:9 24:19 
39:12 54:11 

autistic 28:20
availability 3:14
arbitration 33:5  available 16:12

33:5 43:2,4,7 
area 13:7 17:9 
17:10 18:12 
47:11 51:3 

avocation 18:25

16:13

18:25

awarded 46:10

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

call 24:8,8 53:20  causes 19:9,13 
called 16:20 
Carbide 33:2,3 

certain 4:16 

42:25 

care 5:16 
case 3:4,12,16 
6:17 7:5 8:2,3 
8:5,12 9:5,10 
9:14 10:1 11:6 
11:18 12:12,13 
14:5,5 16:5 
17:14 18:4,4 
19:21 21:5 
25:1,24 27:7,9 
27:16 28:18 
29:4 30:16 
31:12,12 32:7 
33:6 34:22 
37:14,18 38:12 
40:20 41:2,3 
41:22 42:14 
43:1,3,24 44:4 
44:18,24,25 
46:3,6,8,15 
48:16 50:14,22 
52:11 54:25 
55:1 

cases 5:20 6:2 

6:25 8:19 
10:18 11:2,9 
25:20,21 27:3 
27:10 32:17 
33:9 38:14 
40:5,17 41:25 
42:10,19 43:23 
44:10,12,23 
45:5 48:5 
49:14 

categorically 

19:24 

categories 4:13 

12:5 32:5 

category 11:9 

5:10,20 6:25 
12:5,5 17:7 
20:21 22:21 
26:8 27:2,5 
32:9,10 35:2 
certainly 10:12 

23:5 27:6,8 
28:24 48:7,13 
54:16 

cetera 38:23 
challenge 3:18 

Chief 3:3,9 20:3 
24:24 26:12,17 
28:14 29:2,14 
29:19 30:1,4
30:13,22 31:4 
31:24 35:16 
36:23 38:2 
40:10,15 46:24 
47:16,20 48:2 
48:22 49:4,25
51:24 52:1,5
52:10 54:24 

child 32:23 

39:13,14,18,21

Circuit 4:2 

Circuit's 3:11 

28:14,17,23
51:1,20

4:5 5:21,24 7:1  children 28:20 
7:9,19 8:14,20  Christmas 
8:23 9:1,16,21 
9:24 11:11 
12:18,19,20,25 
13:1,3,10,15 
14:18 18:3 
20:16 21:14,24 
22:9,13 24:22 
26:19 27:4,8 
27:12 31:6 
32:3,18,20 
33:1,10,16,21 
35:5 36:1,6,12 
37:3 38:17 
52:18 54:4,22 
challengeable 

circumstance 
49:22 50:21 
circumstances 
24:14,15 32:2 
48:18 50:24 
cite 42:13,16
cites 11:2 
citizen 20:20 

22:21 

4:18 

36:18 

citizen-wide 

challenged 8:16 

22:16 

city 45:21 46:9 
11:13 19:22 
24:11,15 35:22  claim 8:12 9:5 
40:22 51:8,15 
45:3,9 54:9 
52:14 53:13 
54:1,22 

claimant's 29:11 

30:18 

36:21 42:20 

challenges 33:1 

claimed 18:11 
claiming 16:11 
Chamber 42:13 
claims 9:14 
change 15:17,20  class 5:7,7,11

28:9 34:11,13 

changes 28:8 
changing 47:13 
Chapter 41:3 
chemical 44:1,2 

44:3 

classifications 

clause 14:16,19

35:19 

15:8 

54:21 

clear 28:10 50:6 

46:12 

aware 23:18 
a.m 1:14 3:2 

B 

B 31:6 
back 24:7,7 

42:18 43:10 
45:11 46:21,25 
47:1 

balance 26:11 
based 9:4 18:2 

24:10 29:1 
basically 24:5 
basis 4:6 26:24 

Blum 40:18 

42:12 

board 13:1 

29:18 32:3,5 
32:14 35:18 

bottom 5:2 
branch 6:4 
Breyer 5:4,25 

6:10,19 7:7,17 
7:24 8:24 
20:13,17 21:3 
21:5,8,20 22:3 
33:13,25 34:4 
43:10,13 44:17 
44:20 

27:23 30:11,24  brief 16:5 28:21 
32:22 35:12 
37:23 40:24 
43:5 44:9 
49:13 53:18 
bedrock 3:13 

29:5 41:4 
42:13 

bring 10:12 13:5 

37:2 

8:6 

beginning 31:9 
behalf 1:17,19 

2:4,6,9 3:8 
8:24 16:14 
26:16 52:4 

bringing 38:9 
broad 36:14 
broader 12:4 

17:22 

brought 18:10 
18:12 26:20 
35:5 36:7 
38:17 

behaves 27:22 
believe 21:17,17  burden 23:24 
51:22 
burned 17:10 
benefit 32:24 
Burnt 18:3,23 
benefits 32:24 
Bensman 4:22 

19:20,22 26:21 
30:19,23 31:15 
35:6 37:7 
38:10,12,18 
50:11 52:7 
53:25 

business 45:21 
buttressed 

50:18 
C

23:20 34:2 
35:10 37:9 
50:12 

Bensman's 

46:18 

best 53:12 
beyond 15:24 
bid 41:14 46:1,4 

46:7 

bidder 46:13 
bidders 41:6,13 
biggest 29:4 
bit 45:10 51:21 
blue 49:23 

C 2:1 3:1 31:7 

32:2 

39:4 
calculation 28:5  cause 19:10 
28:8 
California 16:17  caused 35:13 

34:16 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

consider 29:6 
consideration 

country 15:7 

51:12 

Davis 31:10 
decided 3:16 

considerations 

50:13 

34:9 

considered 14:4 
consistent 27:5 

52:19 

constant 27:2 
constantly 42:3 
constituted 36:2 
Constitution 6:7 

constitutional 

45:23 

48:17 

construction 

41:6 46:2 

contend 37:24 
context 24:16 

26:21 33:17,21 
38:9,18 49:18 

continue 6:4 
continued 26:23 
continuing 

contract 46:11 

35:11 

46:13 

42:14 45:22 
contracts 41:6 

46:5,7 

contrary 3:12 

7:1 17:15 

34:8 

course 29:16 
32:1,3 35:22 
36:16 40:8 
44:18 53:19 
court 1:1,13 

50:3 

15:17 

decision-maki... 

deciding 3:20 
decision 4:19 
14:13 16:9 
19:12 29:1,16 
3:10,17,17 4:6 
35:24 39:2,5,7 
4:11,13,21,22 
40:5 50:18 
8:3 9:7,24 14:4  decisions 4:9 
14:18 17:18 
20:9 24:9,22 
25:7,12 26:18 
28:17,24 31:10  declarant 17:4 
17:18 18:24 
32:19 33:11 
35:4,8 40:23 
23:11,20 
declarants 
43:4,5,17,18 
43:22 45:9,12 
45:13,24 47:24 
48:7,8,9,13,14  declarant's 4:15 
48:23 49:11,15  declaration 4:21 
4:22 9:4,6 11:2 
50:4,21 51:3 
31:14 35:10 
51:10,18,22 
52:19,20 53:16 
37:6,9,17 
46:18 48:3,19 
53:22,24 54:19 
49:12,13 50:13 
53:20 

16:14 17:14 
18:2 

10:19 

courts 5:19 

31:1 42:6 
50:18 51:16 
53:11 

covered 16:11 

25:13,16 

creative 42:8 
criminal 32:9 

37:12,25 41:9 
45:14 47:4,17 
47:21 48:6 
49:6,7,22 50:6 
50:9,17 

declaratory 

53:18 

53:14 

defect 54:7 
criteria 18:16 
defendant 53:13 
curiosity 15:25  Defenders 37:14 
cut 14:11 36:16 

50:22 

contractors 41:3  court's 4:3,9 6:5  declarations 

Club 16:15 17:4  concede 23:3 

clerk 40:1 
clients 6:25 
close 17:16 

22:17,20,20 

37:24 

Code 32:21 
Colo 1:19 
combination 

4:17,17 29:15 

combine 45:5 
combined 45:16 
come 11:19 
comes 3:17 6:17 
commands 

51:17 

complying 15:3 

20:1 

components 

29:10 

25:5 

39:15 

50:10 

9:13 

conceded 30:11 

concedes 31:16 

conceivable 

conceivably 
11:14 22:1 

concerned 5:15 

14:8 

comment 4:1 

concerning 5:2 
13:24 14:10,24  concluded 20:9 
concrete 22:23 
18:1,22 25:22 
26:2 31:18 
22:25 24:12 
27:25 28:22,22 
37:11 38:5,23 
29:10 30:17 
38:24 39:4 
35:5 43:25 
44:15 50:16 
commented 
44:7 

46:20 

commenting 
31:21 42:3 

concretely 32:6 
concurrence 

37:15 

comments 16:18  conduct 30:2,8 
32:18 33:12 

17:13,24 18:14 

commonsense 

communicate 

42:9 

47:11 

32:9 

companies 30:5 

compelled 51:21 
complain 44:3 
complaining 

32:7 

complaint 27:21 
31:2 45:19,25 
50:10 

confer 15:2 

54:17 

conferring 

54:12 

confers 22:17 
Congress 5:5,15  contrasting 

Contrast 43:24 

44:10 

5:21,22,23,25 
6:1,7,13 7:4,11  controversial 
7:13,18,20 
14:8 15:1,13 
15:18 20:19 
21:11 22:5 
39:11 

controversy 
29:8 43:6 

51:2 

completed 14:21  connection 19:4 

19:22 31:20 

compliance 

16:22 

comply 19:24 

24:17 41:23 
52:15,22 

Conservation 

42:22 

conviction 53:14 
correct 13:16 
15:14 28:15 
47:24 

correctly 51:10 
counsel 29:2 
35:16 51:24 

36:17 39:21 
40:2,10 

cuts 34:18,19 

D
D 3:1 31:6 
dah 6:6,6,6
date 8:21

demanded 24:5 
demands 22:21 
denied 31:17 

40:20,25 50:15 

deny 34:16 

53:11 

Department

1:17 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

elements 39:6 
20:9 25:7,12 
28:18,24 45:13  elevate 42:6,7 
eliminate 8:4,6 
48:9,14,23 
49:10,15 50:18  eliminated 
51:9,18,22 
53:16 

ended 47:12 
document 22:22  endless 49:10 
documents 
enforceable 

15:13 

depend 8:1,2 
deprivation 

22:23 

Deputy 1:16 
described 8:25 
designated 46:4 

46:6 

determination 
25:14 38:15 
determining 

difference 28:2 

47:22 

51:5 

different 7:23 
7:25 15:22 
35:25 36:11 
38:20 39:12 
41:19 51:14 

differently 

27:14 

difficult 27:16 

34:8 43:20 

47:24 48:10 

doing 6:7 17:17 

23:5 27:10 
51:12 

door 13:12,14 
30:25 49:19 

doubt 6:13 
drainage 47:9 
draw 25:9,23 

38:12 

drawn 25:20 

40:7 

driving 52:17 
dropped 20:16 
drug 30:4 32:9 
due 14:16,19 

direct 8:4 
direction 54:12 
disability 32:24 
discreet 31:6 
discretion 40:2  Durango 1:19 

dug 45:18 

15:8,8 

53:9 

41:5 

45:1 

48:11 51:18 
discretionary 

discrimination 

discriminatori... 

discussed 35:21 
36:5,25 41:25 
50:22 

discusses 34:1 
discussing 45:15 
discussion 28:19 

37:15 41:9 
dismissing 
53:16,19 

disposes 52:11 
disputes 33:6 
district 3:17 4:3 

4:13,21 9:7 

D.C 1:9,17 
E 
E 2:1 3:1,1 
EA 3:24 16:23 
25:21 38:22 

earlier 36:6 37:4 
Earth 1:6 3:4 
easier 35:8 
easy 34:10,11 
EDWIN 1:16 

2:3,8 3:7 52:3 

effect 32:18 

35:24 53:18 

EIS 16:23 25:20 
either 3:23 
25:20 28:5 
33:10 42:8 
elastic 8:11 
elasticity 8:22 

29:20,23,23 

exception 12:6,9  Federation 
24:10 29:4 
30:16 31:22 
48:13 52:10,16 
52:20 

exceptional 
12:12,13 

excluded 3:23 
17:15 19:24 
48:10 

exempt 39:14 

exercise 40:1 

40:3 

42:8 

explain 6:14 

10:23,23 

expressed 18:6 

18:19 24:4 

extending 53:22 
extent 52:21 
extraordinary 

54:18 
F

face 29:5 53:15 
facial 26:19

32:18,20 33:1 
33:10 35:5
42:20

facilities 40:21
fact 8:25 9:8,23 

16:4 23:10
27:10 28:3
30:14 32:19
33:7 35:2,3
43:20 50:4,17
factor 34:12,18

34:19

facts 36:15
factual 29:9
fail 10:1
fair 44:14
familiar 47:11
far 5:14 27:15 
fast 11:5,25

FEC 14:5 31:11 

12:17

44:23

federal 32:21
43:2,16,18

fight 44:25 
figure 49:5 
file 49:23 
filed 31:3 48:19 
48:22,24 49:25 
50:7 

final 11:13,14 
28:9 35:19 
36:2,21 54:8 
54:22 

find 8:13,22 
33:20 34:7 
47:14 49:16 
finding 43:7 

45:6 

fine 6:10 41:14 
fine-tune 54:20 
first 4:20 6:8 
14:16 44:13 
52:7 
fit 46:3 
five 12:17 
flaw 49:11,16
Florida 41:3 
42:13 45:18 
flushed 29:10 
focus 13:17 31:9 

45:13 

FOIA 14:4 

15:23 21:2,6
21:22,24 22:20 
22:21 24:5 
54:10 

follow 23:25 
followed 3:19 
following 6:6 
18:25 23:19 
24:23 

follow-up 10:25 
footnote 29:15 

31:22,23,25
32:12,15 35:17 

15:2 

enforcement 

21:15,25 

enjoined 20:14 

51:13 

entered 9:7 
enterprise 10:2 
entire 51:1 
entitled 19:14 

48:14 

entitles 22:22 
environmental 

3:24 25:25 
26:1 

environmenta... 

25:12 40:3 

equitable 3:16 

53:12 

equities 49:21 
Eric 47:8 
escape 34:24 
especially 28:9 
37:25 48:15 

ESQ 1:16,19 2:3 

essentially 14:2 

2:5,8 

49:18 

establish 4:8 

54:13,15 

established 7:16 
et 1:3,6 38:23 
events 17:6 50:7 
everybody 
20:22,22 

evidence 48:15 
exactly 11:17 

example 17:23 

34:23 

35:5 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

36:8,10 38:3 

force 32:25 
forest 3:19 4:2 

generic 36:1,11 
geographic 

51:19 

getting 42:18 
13:5,11,14 
15:16,19 16:2  GINSBURG 
13:21 14:22 
16:9,19,25 
15:5,22 19:16 
17:1,11,16,24 
25:8,18 38:11 
18:4,8,22,25 
19:25 20:15,21 
38:19 50:25 
23:16,19 31:19  give 5:16 13:23 
35:14 37:9,10 
37:20,23 39:3 
39:7,10 40:11 
42:4 47:12,13 
51:9 54:13 

gives 15:25 
go 4:24 14:18 

24:21 46:20 

38:22 

given 9:19 24:20 

Forestry 36:14 

36:16 

forests 3:21 4:12 

4:14,16 14:8 
16:17 41:16 
42:3 53:23 
forget 6:11 
form 23:15 42:6 

42:7 

found 43:14 
44:11 45:12 
49:16 50:24 

four 11:2 12:17 
free 44:13 
Freedom 28:13 
frequently 5:12 

5:12 44:3 
friend 24:24 
fundamental 

15:20 

furnished 19:2 

G 

G 3:1 
general 1:16 6:6 
6:22 7:18 10:9 
22:7 35:24 
38:3,5 

generalized 4:16 
generally 7:7,9 

7:19 19:2 
47:21 

34:24 39:21,25 
40:2 42:19 
43:10,17 44:14 
46:21,25 47:1 
goes 6:14 17:22 

35:19 

going 8:15 9:23 

9:25 10:1 
14:20 15:19 
22:4 23:14,14 
23:18,19,25 
25:1 30:2 
33:18,18,19 
34:5,11,15 
41:1,8 43:18 
45:20 47:9 
48:10 50:5,7 

good 14:12 
45:15 50:5 
govern 3:19 

governed 10:9 

10:16 

53:21 

government 
26:6 31:16 
33:15 37:22 
38:21 40:8 
47:5 48:6 
49:17 50:10,17 

government's 
25:19,25 29:5 
49:2 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

granting 3:15 
ground 10:13 
17:3 24:22 
28:15,25 54:3  Honors 51:25 
hurdle 29:4,12 
54:4 

39:20 40:14 
43:12 47:19,23 
51:5 

grounds 19:23 
53:12 54:5,19 

group 37:19 
groups 44:25 
guess 43:20 

H 

handled 6:2 

40:23 

happen 11:10 

12:6 

happened 11:25 

23:10 45:24 
47:10,14,14 
happens 17:11 

28:3 

hard 20:18 34:7 
hardware 39:25 
harm 4:10 27:25 

28:22,23,25 
29:1 31:15 
34:15 35:12,13 
41:11,12,20,20 
52:22 

harmed 28:5,6 
37:10 52:21 
harms 28:19 

41:8 

Havens 44:24 
hear 3:3 
heard 5:13 
held 33:7 41:7 

43:1 

help 22:4 
hey 49:19 
high 29:12 
historical 40:24 
history 6:23 
home 40:19,20 

40:21 

Honor 27:20 
31:8 38:8,16 

31:13 35:9 

hurt 33:21 
hurts 44:6 
hypo 12:16 

I

identified 4:13
identifies 49:11
identify 7:13
ideological

43:16

III 3:13 5:14,22 
6:16,19 7:15 
7:20 15:12
21:16 22:9

illustrated 53:12
illustrates 52:7
imagine 5:25
33:23 43:23

immediate

54:18

immediately

32:6,11

imminent 4:9

21:19 41:12,20

impact 3:24

25:25

implementing

implements

39:3

39:7

important 39:2

48:18 50:6
imposed 46:5
imposes 14:16
impossible

12:18

included 4:15
includes 16:8,10
including 4:13
indicating 27:20
indication 14:25

15:15 

indictment 
53:17,20 

individual 3:20 

13:18 22:21 
35:18 37:1 
38:7 

individuals 

54:12 

individual's 

24:13 

information 
14:5 16:1 
28:13 

informational 

44:24 

initial 31:2 
injunction 3:12 
4:3,11 17:22 
20:5,6 51:8 
53:3 

injunctive 53:7 

53:9 

injure 9:20 
injured 9:15 

37:19,25

injuries 45:15 

45:16 

injury 4:9,25

6:16,17 8:8,11 
9:15 11:16,19
15:11 19:10,11
19:14 28:11 
43:21,25 44:7 
44:8,24 45:7 
54:9 

inquiry 42:9 

50:23 

insecticide 43:3 
insignificant
25:13 39:15 
40:4 

instance 19:1 
34:2 37:16 
39:13 40:18 
46:17 47:7 

instances 8:15 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

8:18 12:5,17 

Institute 1:6 3:5 
instructed 35:4 
instructive 20:7 

23:11 42:25 
54:10 

intend 6:4 
intended 15:16 

54:17 

intent 15:17 
interest 10:8 
17:8 18:6,19 
24:4 43:16 

interested 14:1 

14:10 17:2 
41:16 

interests 4:16 
7:14 51:23 

internal 15:17 
15:21 54:20 
interpreting 

21:14,22 

intervene 52:20 
invalid 10:13,20 

53:15 54:6 
invalidating 
10:18 35:24 
invoked 16:4 
involved 46:8 
involves 3:18 
involving 14:5 
Island 1:6 3:4 
issue 5:1,3 19:21 

25:1,2,5 34:3 
42:18 48:12,16 
50:3 52:8 

issued 16:9 20:8 

J 

Jacksonville 
41:3 42:14 
45:21 
jail 30:7 
job 45:11,15 
joint 17:5 34:1 

47:7 

judgment 9:7 

49:1 50:1,8 
53:19 

judgments 

53:21 

judicial 3:14 

15:4 19:7,8,14 
24:9 29:7 

judicially 15:2 
jurisprudence 

42:6 

Justice 1:17 3:3 
3:9 5:4,25 6:10 
6:15,19 7:5,7 
7:17,24 8:9,24 
9:9,12,22 10:6 
10:16,24 11:15 
11:22,23 12:8 
12:11,15,16,23 
13:2,11,21 
14:22 15:5,6 
15:12,22 18:9 
18:15,20 19:16 
20:3,13,17 
21:3,5,8,20 
22:3,15,20,25 
23:4 24:6,24 
25:8,18 26:12 
26:17,25 27:18 
27:21 28:1,7 
28:14 29:2,14 
29:19 30:1,4 
30:13,22 31:4 
31:20,24 32:4 
33:13,25 34:4 
35:16,21 36:23 
37:14 38:2,11 
38:19 39:17,22 
40:10,15 41:10 
41:19,24 42:10 
42:15 43:10,13 
44:17,20 45:17 
46:24 47:16,20 
48:2,22 49:4 
49:25 50:25 
51:24 52:1,6 
52:10,24 53:4 
54:24 

K 

keep 39:11 50:6 
KENDALL 

41:18 

Kenna 1:19 2:5 

26:14,15,17
27:13,19,23
28:7,16 29:14 
29:22 30:3,9
30:19 31:1,8
31:25 32:17 
33:25 34:25 
36:10 37:5 
38:8,16,25
39:20,24 40:13 
40:17 41:24 
42:12,17 43:12 
44:17,22 46:16 
47:1,18,23
48:5,25 49:15 
50:2 51:4,25 

KENNEDY 
18:9,15,20 
Kennedy's 

37:14 

key 42:21 
kind 13:13 

21:12 23:12 
24:1,3 34:15 
36:18,20 41:22 
44:12,13 46:17 
kinds 5:20 26:8 

40:17 44:11 
Kneedler 1:16 
2:3,8 3:6,7,9 
5:23 6:8,12 7:4 
7:10,22 8:1,9 
9:3,11,13 10:3 
10:14,21 11:8 
11:19 12:3,10
12:13,21,24
13:4,16,21
14:15,25 15:10 
15:14 16:2
18:11,18,21
19:19 20:5,14
21:1,4,7,17 

22:1,5,15,19 
22:24 23:2,6 
25:4,10 26:4 
26:13 52:1,3,5 
53:2,6 54:25 

knew 17:25 
know 5:14 6:23 

7:3 11:22 
13:20 18:16 
30:4,6 34:22 
34:23 37:21 
38:20 39:22,24 
40:4,23 41:13 
41:15,21 44:17 
47:14 49:10 
50:4 51:20 
knowing 13:8 
known 23:10 
Kreger's 39:25 

L

labels 32:10
labs 29:20,23

34:9

Laidlaw 31:12
land-withdra...

36:12

language 38:25
latest 47:18
Laughter 32:16
39:19 40:12,16
44:16

law 22:22 43:3 

46:13 51:1
53:21

lawful 43:19
lawlessness 28:3
lawyers 6:1,9,24
left 36:14
legal 21:21 25:2 
25:5,11 34:10 
34:13 54:7

lesser 35:9 40:21 
letter 17:12,12

18:16

letters 18:6
let's 5:25 12:11 

27:8 32:15

life 43:20
light 31:23

37:25 50:21

likelihood 20:10
limit 53:1,10
limitation 51:19
limitations 8:5

14:17

line 25:9,19,24

26:3,5,7 38:12 
38:20,21 40:7 
lines 24:6 28:12 
list 23:8 42:19 
listed 4:12 17:7 
litigant 5:13
litigants 5:7,8

5:19

litigate 44:1
litigates 5:12
litigation 49:2,8
little 5:5 27:14 
loaning 45:1,1
local 17:1 23:15 
23:22,23 37:10 
37:19,20 39:25 
51:9,9

localized 23:17
long 26:21
longer 5:3 18:3 

22:14

look 6:23 17:2 

21:2,6 33:9,16 
40:18 44:14
46:18 47:21,24
48:3,10,15,18
49:6

looked 16:21
43:13 45:14
looking 22:3
31:14 48:11

looks 41:11
lose 49:4
lot 9:1
lower 31:12
Lujan 37:13

48:12

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

O 2:1 3:1 
object 11:4 27:9  original 39:13 

4:7 17:14 

36:17 54:3 

originally 45:14 

objections 20:11  ought 26:5 

never 8:16 31:20 

20:11,12 
32:19 33:18,18  obtain 15:2 
34:7,21 38:16 
39:15 

obtained 20:6 
obvious 37:18 

lumbering 

13:13 

M 

mailing 23:8 
maintenance 

26:10 

making 6:15 
19:4 51:1 
manageable 
24:12 29:9 

manner 35:20 

36:5,24 

manufacture 

33:4 

Marderosian 

18:7,21 31:14 
37:6 

16:22 19:24 
51:10 

45:2 

NEPA 3:25 

Methow 37:16 
mine 11:24 
minorities 45:22 
minority 45:20 
minute 43:11 
minutes 52:2 
modify 15:16 
moment 53:8 
monitoring 17:5  newspaper 
monitors 18:8 
23:15,22 
moot 50:14 
mootness 30:21 
31:11 35:7,8 
43:7 

23:24,25 

newspapers 

motion 49:2 
multiple 4:17,18  normal 5:18 

Ninth 3:11 4:2 
4:18 28:14,16 
28:23 51:1,20 

outside 26:20 

33:16 

outweighed

30:25 
P

P 3:1
page 2:2 4:24 

17:19 29:5
34:1 46:18
47:8

pain 32:9
paper 21:10
paragraph 5:1
parents 28:20
Parks 42:22
Park's 33:6
Parma 28:18
part 4:4 36:19 
participation

16:24

particular 4:25

7:5,12,14 8:2,2 
9:14 10:8,17
13:5,6,7,8,17
15:11 17:2
23:8,13 24:14 
25:15,16 26:6 
27:6,9 29:17 
30:14 32:1,2
33:17 35:17
37:1 38:6
42:19 44:4
49:9,11 54:1 

particularly
42:25 52:12

parts 39:1
party 6:9
pass 7:13
passage 15:1
passed 5:6 7:11 

35:6 39:10
43:4

41:7 

occur 14:9 22:12 
occurred 13:8 
October 1:10 
offers 48:7 
off-road 22:11 
oh 18:20 40:15 

51:11 

Ohio 36:13,15
okay 7:17 9:11 
12:23 18:20,20
33:23 49:11 

once 30:20 

31:13 

49:8 

normally 44:7 
51:2,7 54:15 
Northeastern 
41:2 42:13 
45:18 

ongoing 26:23 

note 37:14 
Nothing's 34:11 
notice 9:19 11:3 

30:11,24 32:22 
35:11 37:23 
13:23 14:10,24  on-the-ground
11:20 16:21 
19:2 20:21,23 
19:11 35:13 
20:24 21:11 
45:15 
22:16 23:12,15 
23:17 24:2,3,3  opened 49:18 
operate 19:18 
24:20 25:22 
opinion 36:15 
26:2 31:17 
34:2 35:3 38:4  opportunity 
13:24 46:21 
38:23,24 39:4 
opposed 44:12 
47:9 50:16 
oral 1:12 2:2 3:7 
notices 21:13 
noticing 3:25 

26:15 

N

MATT 1:19 2:5  N 2:1,1 3:1 

26:15 

name 33:22 42:5 

matter 1:12 5:18  nation 51:2 

30:21 31:11 
35:3 38:10 
55:2 

mean 5:4,5 6:19 

14:17 15:23 
18:15 23:3 
26:9 41:11 
42:7 

means 19:20 
26:7 51:18 

meant 15:1,20 
39:11 54:19 
measure 29:17 

35:18 

mechanism 

54:14 

5:11 

national 3:21 

4:14 13:5 
16:16 17:24 
23:16 24:9 
29:3 30:16 
31:18,21 33:6 
36:20 37:8 
40:11 42:3,22 
48:12 52:9,16 
52:19 

nationwide 3:12 

4:3,11 30:12 
51:7 53:18 
natural 4:16 
nature 15:20 

16:23 

necessary 8:7 

member 4:7 5:8  near 34:20 

members 42:2 

16:18 

need 8:10 27:14 
37:17 38:22,24 
39:17 

45:3 46:1 
memo 16:9 
Mendoza 51:23 
mentioned 42:5  needs 16:22,22 
mere 28:3 
21:13 29:15 
merits 39:16 
40:7 
40:8 50:13 

neighborhoods 

23:21 

notified 23:13 
notify 17:8,10 
notifying 16:3 
number 8:15 

19:23 

nursing 40:19 

40:20,21 

O

order 11:4 
ordinarily 24:10 

29:6 

ordinary 52:25 
organization
17:3 23:23 
43:15 

organizational

45:2 

organizations 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

passes 20:19 
pattern 13:7,19 
pay 17:16 40:1 
penalty 32:10 
pending 49:2 
penny 31:5 
people 7:19 8:24 

29:24 34:16 
53:14 

presumably 

10:19 

presume 9:23 
plaintiffs 11:6 
pretty 34:6 
19:21 20:16 
26:23 30:10,15  prevent 9:15 
35:11 37:18 
40:24 42:1 

36:2,13,14 
38:3,5 

prohibits 6:7 
previously 24:4  project 14:12 
primary 30:2 
32:18 33:12 
principle 8:6 

plan 19:25 22:14 

36:16 39:3,8 
pleading 42:8 
please 3:10 17:8  principles 3:13 

22:4 

17:10 26:18 

print 32:10 

point 6:14 10:15  prior 6:15 21:15 

12:20 13:23 
14:7 16:3 
17:15 18:6,13 
18:13,18,24

21:23 23:18 
41:13,15,16

44:6 53:22 

perfectly 34:11 

41:1 49:21 
perform 46:1 
permit 39:13,14 

39:17 40:13 
permitted 7:1 
32:19 42:20 

10:22,23 11:25 
12:4,22 16:5 
19:3 21:1 
25:25 37:13 
45:8 

21:24 

PRISCILLA 1:3 
probably 12:14 
21:9,18 40:4 
problem 33:13 
33:14 34:10 
36:13 

pointed 30:14 
pointing 23:21 
points 7:11 52:5  problematic 

profession 18:24  provision 22:17 
program 35:25 

23:17 

provisions 4:1 

15:3 

proximately 

10:11 

8:5 

16:24


prudential 5:15 

publication 

16:16,21 17:2 
17:7 18:3,7,19 
18:23 19:18,20  public 14:2,10 
19:22 20:4,11 
20:15 23:9,14 
24:4,19 25:15 
25:16 26:6,10 
26:21,22 30:19 
30:23 31:15 
35:6 37:8 
41:14,16 52:7 
53:25 54:1,3,4 
54:5 

43:15 44:8 
54:19 

23:15,21


pure 27:23 
purely 25:2,5,11 

published 16:12 

purpose 23:20 
projects 4:12,14  purposes 20:7 
pursuing 20:17 
put 17:24 23:8 

32:21 

permitting 36:1  position 10:1 
11:1 25:19 
potentially 

person 9:14 

36:11 

10:10,11 13:6

16:13 19:6,14 
21:12 22:22 
23:13 32:7 
35:23 36:7 
37:2 43:24 
personally 

47:10 

28:12 

pound 31:5 
power 21:21 

27:4 

practical 8:16 

50:23 

practice 27:2 
52:25 53:1 

38:13 

precedent 10:17 

personnel 17:1 
person's 24:15 
pesticides 33:4 
petition 4:23 
17:20 46:19 

preceding 43:1 
preclusion 8:25 
predicate 12:19 
petitioner 45:25  prediction 42:23 
Petitioners 1:4 
1:18 2:4,9 3:8 
52:4 
PI 20:8 
piece 21:10 
place 13:18 

premise 11:23 

preliminary 

preference 

11:24 

45:21 

20:6 

23:14 25:23 
26:3 39:11 

prepare 54:13 
preserve 46:22 

plaintiff 11:1,17  pressed 47:5 

48:8,9 

16:4,10 17:21 
17:21,23 18:8 
22:11,14 25:6 
25:13 26:8 
37:8 53:23 

problems 34:6 
procedural 4:4 
5:21 6:16,21 
promptly 11:3 
6:22 19:10 
20:12 28:11,19  promulgate 5:9 
28:25 43:21 
44:6,8 45:16 
52:12 54:9,19 
procedure 3:15 

promulgated 

promulgates 

21:14 

21:22 

5:10,13 7:8 
19:5 27:3,5 
39:12 51:6 

promulgation 

44:5 

6:5 

procedures 3:19  proper 24:8 

14:19,24 16:3 
16:6 20:2 23:7 
24:23 35:13 
54:15,21,23 

proceeding 

14:20 52:13 
proceedings 

properly 19:23 

51:22 

proportions 
24:12 29:9 

proposed 16:4,7 

17:6 39:2 

protected 35:14 
provide 3:22 
process 14:16,19  provided 47:6 

48:23 

15:8 16:25 
49:10 

provides 24:2 
processes 15:18  providing 8:4 

48:6 

26:2 41:4 

p.m 55:1

Q

quality 46:22 
quarterly 16:12 
question 7:23,25 
10:5,25 11:24 
25:8,11 27:13 
27:15 28:10
33:12 35:7,8
37:6 42:21
48:17 51:2,14 
questions 44:11
quickie 13:13 
quite 35:25 

36:11 41:19
45:10

quote 37:2 
quoted 31:24 

52:10 
R

R 3:1
raised 37:17

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

26:1 

15:13 

required 16:24 

requirement 
3:24 23:22 
requirements 

9:16,17 10:10 
10:13,18,20 
12:19 19:10 
21:13 24:11,13 
24:16 27:1 
28:2,4 29:6,11 
29:17,24 30:10  requires 25:14 
requiring 32:8 
30:17 32:1,7,8 
reserve 26:11 
32:13,20,25 
residents 40:20 
33:3,10 44:6 
resolved 52:9 
50:12 51:6,15 
51:17 52:11,12  respect 4:12,20 
52:22 53:13,15 
53:17 

4:25 18:22 
23:18 28:2 
30:23 31:6 
respectfully 

sake 9:9 12:9 
sale 35:6 38:10 
38:18 50:12 

sales 17:25 18:1 

37:11 42:5 
46:19 47:2 

sanction 49:14 
saving 14:8 
saying 5:18 6:4 
19:16 25:23 
26:2 33:16 
34:17 36:11,20 
38:4 41:20 
43:23 45:22 
51:21 

14:3,23 15:2 
16:1 20:20 
22:24 23:6 
24:17,20,21 
30:3 31:1 
36:17 38:14,25 
44:7,22 50:1 
54:18 

rightness 27:13 

27:15 28:9 
33:15 

rights 14:2 

54:12 

ripe 9:25 29:7 
35:20 36:4,24 
42:24 43:5 
ripeness 8:5 
20:7 24:8 
42:18 53:6 

referred 47:19 

relief 3:16 34:16  restrictions 46:5 

40:8 

reaching 53:22 
read 29:2,15 
31:24 32:15 
34:24 36:6,8 
37:4 46:6 

reading 13:22 
realized 12:1 
really 16:6 

20:24 33:21 
45:13 

reappear 5:19 
reason 32:25 
48:19 49:6 
54:6 

reasons 4:18 
REBUTTAL 

2:7 52:3 
recall 8:19 
receive 20:21 

35:3 

record 18:5 

23:16 46:16 
47:25 48:14 
redlining 45:1 
reduced 24:12 

reference 31:22 

29:8 

42:4 

50:7 

32:24 

35:17 

referring 24:6 

refers 17:20,21 

reflected 28:4 
Reform 26:19 

39:1,10 

reg 21:15 43:19 
regard 37:7 
regs 21:22,24 
regular 21:24 

41:6,13 

regularly 21:12 

46:1 

regulation 6:18 

8:14,17,23 

regulations 3:18 
3:22 4:4 5:1,3 
8:4 15:21 
16:20 26:20 
31:17 32:21 
38:17 49:1 
50:15 

reiterated 49:17 
reject 48:19 
rejected 32:19 
rejecting 48:6 
rejects 33:10 
relevance 52:13 
relied 17:19 

28:15 

53:7,9,11 

rely 4:22 28:11 

48:20 

relying 42:11 
rendered 53:19 
repeated 13:19 
representation 

45:3 

4:23 

23:8 

reproduced 

request 15:23 

requesters 

21:24 

require 25:20 

10:7 

37:4 

31:9 

restatement 

response 9:22 

respond 9:12 
12:2 14:15 
respondents 

1:20 2:6 16:11 
16:14 25:5 
26:16 

River 47:8 
road 26:9 
ROBERTS 3:3 

says 5:7 7:18,20 
8:3 11:4 14:1 
14:22,23 15:6 
16:15 19:6 
20:19 21:11,11 
23:13,22 24:17 
24:25 29:6,16 
31:25 32:4 
20:3 24:24 
35:22,25 36:23 
26:12 28:14 
36:24 38:21 
29:2,19 30:1,4 
39:2 46:19 
30:13,22 31:4 
52:17,24,25 
35:16 36:23 
38:2 40:10,15 
53:10,14,15 
46:24 47:16,20  Scalia 6:15 7:5 
10:6,16 15:6 
48:2,22 49:4 
return 47:3 
49:25 51:24 
15:12 22:15,20 
reverse 41:5 
22:25 23:4 
52:1 54:24 
review 3:14 8:4  Robertson 
24:6 26:25 
27:18,21 28:1 
28:7 32:4 
35:21 39:17,22 
41:10,19,24 
42:10,15 45:17 

15:4 19:7,9,15 
22:7 24:9 29:7 
35:20 36:4,12 
36:24 

restore 17:9 
restrict 15:18 

room 7:12 28:12 

37:16 

44:22 45:6 
rule 5:21 6:6 
12:7,9 34:13 
49:8 51:3 

scenario 11:16 

7:2,9 

19:20,22 26:21  rules 6:22,23 7:1  schedule 16:7,16 
30:19,23 31:15 
35:6 37:7 
38:10,12,18 
50:12 52:7 
53:25 

school 28:18,20 
scope 3:14 29:8 
scoping 16:20 

16:25 17:12,24 

ruling 38:11 

53:22 

17:6 

S 

right 6:10 10:4 
10:21 13:3,23 

S 1:16 2:1,3,8 

3:1,7 52:3 

se 8:14 
seat 14:3,11 

45:4 

reviews 16:16 
representatio...  Ridge 18:3,23 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

second 44:12,21 
section 19:5 
24:10 39:4 
52:17 53:10 
54:21 

see 16:21 17:2,6 

32:25 34:4 
36:7 41:21 

seek 19:7 
seeking 10:12 

38:19,21 
seen 34:21 
sends 17:12 
sense 24:25 25:3 

sent 18:5 30:7 

32:14 

40:21 

sentence 28:21 

29:3 36:5,8 
37:4 52:9,16 
separate 10:4 

Sequoia 31:18 

16:6 

37:8 

series 17:25 

22:10 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

54:18 

21:12,18 27:19 
27:24,24 29:24  sought 44:25 
SOUTER 8:9 
31:5 46:10 
47:25 

showed 37:6 

50:14 

showing 4:9 

8:10 

shown 26:22 

shows 23:16 
52:9 53:25 

9:9,12,22 
11:22 12:8,11 
12:15,23 13:2 
13:11 31:20 
so-called 16:7 
16:15 17:12 

special 3:25 7:8 

7:13 

30:20,22 35:10  speaks 32:5 

25:23 

side 8:13 24:25 

Sierra 16:14 
17:4 37:24 

sign 6:3 
similar 13:10,19 

specific 4:5 6:18 
8:10,15 9:1,17 
9:24 14:20,23 
17:21 41:15 
42:4 43:25 
47:15 50:10,11 
specifically 5:6 
5:22,23 17:20 
specifics 47:6,6 
stand 4:19 
standard 8:11 
3:21,23 4:5,10 
6:18 9:18 
38:23 48:12 
13:17 19:12,13  standards 22:8 
24:18 52:14,15  standing 3:13 

22:11 28:17 
42:1,21 

similarly 10:19 
site-specific 

3:18 

start 34:8 
stated 44:25 
statement 26:1 

31:22 

statements 

50:21 

states 1:1,13 
20:20 39:4 
41:17 

statute 5:6,6 

substantial 6:13 
substantive 

substantively 

20:11 

39:11 

success 20:10 
suddenly 28:4 
sue 9:15 15:7 

20:25 

sued 45:22 
suffer 35:12 

41:8,20 43:21 
suffered 41:12 

7:11,13 13:22 
14:1,3,4,22 
15:1,6,8,16,25 
19:17,17 20:19  suffering 28:21 
sufficient 8:22 
20:19 21:14 
24:2 25:6 
53:10 

45:16 

45:12 

suggest 41:25 
suggests 29:21 

statutes 8:3 
stay 49:2,18,20 
STEVENS 

10:24 11:15 
52:24 53:4 

Stevens's 11:23 

12:16 

stick 9:25 

54:17 

suit 11:12 18:10 

18:12 48:1 

Sullivan 32:23 
Summers 1:3 

supplemental 

3:4 

47:4 

supports 45:19 
46:16 48:21 

suppose 5:5 7:6 
15:6 20:18,19 
21:11,20,21 
34:5,6 43:15 
43:18 53:13 

supposed 19:18 

21:10 

53:16 

surmount 29:13 
sustained 4:2 

T

T 2:1,1
table 14:3,11

situation 11:11 

13:9 17:13 
23:12 29:11,25 
30:18 43:8 

serious 18:25 
serve 44:8 
service 3:20 4:2 
15:19 16:3,9 
16:19,25 17:1 
17:11,17 18:4 
18:22 19:1 
20:15,21 39:10  solve 34:10 35:8 
somebody 14:18 
47:12,13 51:9 
54:13 

41:1 42:21 
Solicitor 1:16 

situations 7:12 

Service's 15:17 
set 20:21 51:10 
51:19 53:15 

setting 49:1 51:5 

51:17 53:17 
settled 30:24 
38:14 41:22 
set-aside 46:4 
shift 22:6 
show 8:7 12:16 
15:11,24,25 

17:5 20:24 
23:7 43:22 

someone's 36:17 
somewhat 8:11 

28:10 

soon 25:11 
SOPA 16:15,18 

16:19 17:5 

sorry 21:3 39:20 

50:18 

sort 8:24 23:12 

36:15 51:7 

15:7 

stopped 46:2 
stopping 10:8 

19:8 22:7 24:8 
25:6 26:8,10 
27:1 39:3,5 

4:4,8,20 5:4,15  stipulated 37:24 
stop 7:21 10:12 
5:16,20 7:15 
8:7,14,23 9:4 
11:7,11,16 
12:12,14,19 
13:10,17 17:19  store 39:25 
subject 3:25 
18:2 19:4 22:9 
22:17 23:3 
27:12,14,18 
28:5,8 30:20 
30:23 31:2,5 
31:13 35:9 
37:5,16 40:19 
41:7,11 42:9 
43:10 44:9 
45:2,25 46:10 
46:14 47:22,25 
48:16,17 49:16  subscribe 23:23 
49:17,19 50:4 
50:23,23 
stand-alone 

18:21 38:1 
48:3,7,15,25 
54:25 55:2 

substance 42:7 

subsequent 

37:12 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

subjected 50:15  Supposing 11:1 
submit 16:18 
Supreme 1:1,13 
sure 10:25 49:14 
18:14 49:22 
submitted 9:6 
surely 10:10 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

take 5:12,16 
14:13 17:9 
22:14 23:14 
33:19 

taken 7:14 8:21 

11:3 

takes 48:14 
talked 50:11 
talking 36:19 
39:22 47:9 
53:2,3,4 

talks 31:15 37:9 

45:10 

Tell 13:2,3 

42:10 

telling 5:8 33:3 
tellingly 20:6 
tells 5:22 31:23 
ten 4:12 
term 31:10 
terms 7:15 8:16 

43:19 44:18,20 
44:22 45:5,5 
45:12,19 46:16 
47:23,24 48:21 
50:2,5 51:4,14 
51:20 52:8 
54:10 

Thomas 33:2 

42:24 

thought 23:4 

25:18,22 38:9 
49:24 53:4 

thousands 30:12 
threat 12:1 
threatened 8:7 
8:11 9:17,20 
10:11 11:14,20 
22:10,10 

three 11:2 12:17 

34:9,15 52:2 

54:11 

tie 28:22 
tied 45:11 
terrible 43:25 
ties 53:7,7 
text 35:21 36:25  Tim 46:18 

51:21 54:16 
Thank 26:12 

51:24,25 54:24 

theory 8:19 
thereof 19:7 
thin 17:9 
thing 21:23 

25:22,24 27:11 
34:5 54:8 
things 22:14 
32:10 54:16 

think 4:18 5:16 

6:9,12 20:7 
24:18 25:4 
27:15,17 28:7 
28:8,12,16,23 
29:4,14,20,22 
29:23 30:9 
31:1,20 32:3,5 
32:12 33:15 
34:25 35:3,7 
36:13,19 40:7 
40:17 42:25 

timber 17:21,22 

17:25 18:1 
22:13 26:8 
35:6 37:11 
42:5 46:19 
47:2 51:9 
time 5:19,19 
6:25 9:20 
20:18 26:11 
31:2 43:3 
47:25 49:9,10 
50:9,13 

times 30:12 
told 34:6 
tort 6:2 
totality 48:21 
tough 33:15 
treated 27:14 

42:1 

tree 39:13,14,18 
39:21 40:2,10 

trees 36:17 
tried 13:13 

29:7 

types 16:6 38:4 
typical 44:18 

U

ultimately 45:11
uncontroverted

37:22 42:2
undermines

36:8 

Union 33:2,3 

42:24 

United 1:1,13 
20:20 41:17 
unlawful 27:7 
unright 33:7 
unripe 43:1 
unusual 5:5 

11:12 41:10 

upcoming 11:12 
use 22:11 
useful 40:18 
usual 15:3 
U.S 42:17 
V 

v 1:5 3:4 28:18 

trying 10:22 

11:6 12:20,25 
12:25 21:5,9 

44:23 48:12 

valid 15:9 
Valley 37:16 

two 3:18,22 8:18  value 6:2 

vehicle 22:11 
16:6 34:12 
victims 41:5 
39:1,6 41:25 
view 25:25 
42:10 44:11 
tying 28:21,25 
views 47:12 
type 13:19 25:15  violate 21:15 

went 20:15 
28:24 46:3 
weren't 24:20 
24:21 42:5 
Westminster 
6:20,20,20 

we've 38:1 39:15 
Whitman 8:3 
Wiberg 47:8 
violation 14:21  Wildlife 24:9 
29:3 30:16 
31:21 36:20 
48:12 52:10,16
52:20 

15:7 20:8 
24:19 45:23 
violative 14:19 
virtue 4:10 
visited 13:6,6,18  Winkelman 

46:23 

W

wait 30:7 38:6 

understand 10:6 

54:7

10:7 11:1 

waiting 25:2

undertake 13:24  want 5:9 10:25 
undertaken 
11:5,5 14:13 
18:7 20:4 
20:22 23:13,23
33:16 39:21
50:25

unenforceable 

19:17,20 

28:18 

wonder 44:8,11
word 44:13 

words 36:25 

50:25 

54:14 

work 34:13 
worked 39:9 

40:6 

works 17:3 46:2 
worried 13:12 
worth 31:14 
wouldn't 8:6 

9:19,19 32:14 

written 54:11 
wrong 6:16 

25:23 26:3,6
27:11 
X

wanted 5:15
15:18 22:6
54:8

wants 20:22,24

54:2

1:17

Washington 1:9

wasn't 47:9
way 6:1 12:24 

13:3 17:3 23:9  x 1:2,8 44:1,2,3 
27:22 34:19,19
38:20 39:9
40:6,22 41:25 
51:11 52:8
53:25

Yaretsky 40:19

42:12

Y

yeah 6:11
year 6:2 39:24 
yesterday 48:3

ways 14:16
web 16:13

31:11 32:23  Wednesday
33:2 37:13,16 
40:18 41:3 
42:12,14,24  Weiser 47:8

weighed 51:22

1:10

Z

Zebley 32:23
zero 34:14,17,18
34:19,20,20,24 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

9 

90 47:8 

$ 

$500,000 6:3 
$7 40:1 

0 

07-463 1:5 3:4 

1 
1,300 18:5 
101 34:1 
11 16:16 
11:06 1:14 3:2 
12:07 55:1 
15 5:1 29:5 
17 6:2 
1993 42:14,17 

2 

2 29:15 31:22,23 
31:25 32:12,15 
35:17 36:8 
38:3 

20 17:25 42:4 

47:2 

2008 1:10 
23-page 18:22 
26 2:6 

3 

3 2:4 

5 
508 42:17 
52 2:9 

6 
656 42:17 
7 
70A 4:24 
702 19:5 24:10 
52:17 53:10 

706 54:21 
71a 4:24 5:2 
17:19 46:18 

8 

8 1:10 37:14 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

