Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
F. SCOTT YEAGER, 
:
                
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 08-67 
                       
UNITED STATES. 
: 
                  
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, March 23, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:06 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
SAMUEL J. BUFFONE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of

 the Petitioner. 

MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,

 Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf
 of the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
SAMUEL J. BUFFONE, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

21


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

SAMUEL J. BUFFONE, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

49


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:06 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument today in Yeager v. United States.

 Mr. Buffone.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF SAMUEL J. BUFFONE

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. BUFFONE:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 When a jury's acquittal resolves an issue in 
a defendant's favor, that determination is final and the 
government may not seek an inconsistent determination of 
that issue from a second jury.  Unlike acquittals, hung 
counts are not verdicts.  They decide nothing, and 
therefore a hung count cannot be inconsistent with an 
acquittal.  A straightforward application of this 
Court's decision in Ashe v. Swenson is all that is 
called for in this case.  A new rule is not necessary.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Mr. Buffone, may I raise 
one preliminary issue?  And it's an issue which is --
does not go to the reason we took the case, but I'd like 
your response to it.  Your argument, your Ashe v. 
Swenson argument, assumes, as you have said in the 
brief, that the -- that the verdicts of acquittal 
essentially determined that your client did not possess 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

insider knowledge, and I question whether the verdicts 
of acquittal did necessarily establish that fact.  I've 
looked at the -- at the jury instructions, and I will be 
candid to say I did not parse the whole jury 
instruction, so you may very well correct me in the 
assumption that I'm going to make.  But the point of the 
-- of the jury instruction that seemed to go to your 
argument is set out on page 105 of the Joint Appendix, 
and the judge is telling the jurists what they had to 
find.  And one of them was that your client made any 
untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state 
a material fact necessary in order to make the 
statements made, in the light of the circumstances under 
which they were made, not misleading as charged.

 It seems to me that the jury under that 
instruction could have come back with a verdict of 
acquittal simply on the assumption that your client had 
not made affirmative statements at the -- at the meeting 
in question, therefore he had no obligation to correct 
any statements, because it is not clear from this 
instruction that he had to correction the statements of 
other people who omitted material facts, and that 
therefore the only thing that the verdict proves or the 
only thing that the verdict may have assumed is that he 
didn't speak up and say anything. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Is that a possible analysis?
 MR. BUFFONE:  I do not believe so, Your 

Honor, for two reasons.  First, under the Ashe test as 
interpreted by this Court in Dowling, the record as a 
whole must be analyzed.  And in Dowling the Court looked 
at admissions made by the defendant's attorney during 
the course of the second proceeding that identification 
of his client was not an issue.  Similarly here, looking 
at the entirety of the record, in its arguments closing 
and opening, and most importantly in its 
cross-examination of Mr. Yeager, the government made 
clear to the jury its theory of omissions.  And that 
theory of omission was that Mr. Yeager when he was at 
the 2000 Analysts Conference had a duty to stand up and 
correct omissions if there were any misstatements made 
by others.  They argued to the jury that he would be 
guilty of omissions if he did not affirmatively correct 
it.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, no, I agree that did 
seem to be the point of the cross-examination, and in 
fact I guess you set it out in one of the briefs.  But 
is that enough?  To my knowledge, we've never held that 
that is enough to convert or, let's say, to -- for us to 
assume, despite a more protean jury instruction, that 
the jury necessarily had to find a fact.  And I guess 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

maybe my question boils down to is:  Why should what 
perhaps consumed 60 or 80 seconds of cross-examination 
suffice to tighten up a jury instruction which -- which 
basically is open-ended?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Well, Your Honor, first there 

was more to the trial record than a snippet of 
cross-examination.  Again, in opening statement the 
government began by arguing to the jury that Mr. Yeager 
was the man behind the screen, that he was --

JUSTICE ALITO:  That's the government's --

that's the government's argument.  And in order to 
convict for securities fraud based on an omission, isn't 
it necessary for there to be a duty to disclose?  And 
what would prevent -- how can we be sure that the jury 
here did not find that there was no securities fraud 
because, insofar as the government was proceeding on an 
omissions theory, your client didn't have a duty to 
disclose, did not cause a material fact to be omitted.

 MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, first, the 

instructions permitted alternative ways to reach the 
first element of securities fraud, and one of the three 
alternatives was either misstatements or omissions.  And 
I think the instruction, for all of its frailty, was 
clear that the jury could convict on an omissions 
theory.  Now, Your Honor's question --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE ALITO:  I agree with that, but why 
couldn't they find that there was no securities fraud 
based on an omissions theory because there wasn't any 
duty on Mr. Yeager's part to disclose?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, the indictment was 
an integrated theory of fraud, that it charged that Mr. 
Yeager and others had planned to make misrepresentations 
and material omissions for one purpose, and that purpose 
was to enhance the price of Enron stock so that they 
could later engage in insider trading to sell that 
stock.  The omissions theory was grounded in the 
indictment.  It was elucidated by the instructions, and 
it was clarified so that there could be no uncertainty 
by the cross-examination and arguments of counsel.

 This jury -- under an Ashe analysis, the 

question is what did this jury believe and what did they 
rationally decide?

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But Ashe is quite a 

different case.  Ashe is a seriatim prosecution.  It was 
one event, a robbery.  There were six victims.  Victim 
number one, the charge relating to victim number one, 
was an acquittal.  That necessarily decided that the 
defendant was not among the robbers.  So that is quite a 
different situation from what we have here.

 MR. BUFFONE:  Justice Ginsburg, first, it is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

my belief that seriatim prosecutions raise no greater 
threat to the core values of double jeopardy than was 
raised here.  Those core values are, first of all, the 
finality of acquittals; and the acquittal here was 
offended by any effort to retry an issue of fact 
necessarily decided.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You're not contending 
that double jeopardy itself was at issue?  In other 
words, claim preclusion.  There would be no claim 
preclusion, so we're talking only about issue 
preclusion?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Yes, Your Honor, I would like 

to --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  That means it was 

necessarily, the issue was necessarily decided?

 MR. BUFFONE:  That's correct, Your Honor. 
We do not argue claim preclusion here.  Our argue is 
issue preclusion or previously known as collateral 
estoppel before clarification by this Court.

 Your Honor, to the question of seriatim 
prosecution, again, although Ashe was in a sense a 
seriatim prosecution, in all of the Ashe-type cases 
decided by this Court jeopardy had not even attached, 
let alone terminated.

 The issue we believe should be addressed in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

terms of what was the finality of the judgment.  The 
finality of the judgment here were six acquittals. 
Those acquittals were final and were not subject to 
redetermination.  The issue preclusive effect arises 
from the jury's acquittals, not from the hung counts, 
the hung counts which were not final and which resolved 
nothing.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So the hung counts are 

equivalent, equivalent to an acquittal?

 MR. BUFFONE:  No, Your Honor, I think 

precisely the opposite.  Hung counts have none of the 
force of an acquittal.  They have none of what this 
Court has historically recognized as the powerful way 
that a jury speaks when it acquits in cases such as 
Martin Linen, where the court recognized that.  The hung 
counts historically, as we set out in our brief, were 
not even accepted at common law as an option for a jury.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But we said -- we said in 
Ashe, didn't we, that you should take into account all 
the circumstances in determining what was decided in the 
first acquittal, all the circumstances.  How can -- how 
can you close your eyes to the circumstance that is 
alleged here, that the -- the hung jury portion of the 
jury's verdict is simply inconsistent with the acquittal 
portion, and therefore you should not count the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

acquittal for double jeopardy purposes?  Isn't this part 
of the total circumstances?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Justice Scalia, first, we 

believe that the -- I believe that the Ashe test relates 
to the total circumstances on the record.  What is it 
from the record that the Court can derive meaning from? 
The Court can derive meaning from all that was presented 
to the jury, and from all that the jury decided.  In its 
hung counts, the jury did not speak with the unanimity 
and the finality that it did in its acquittals.  As this 
Court, speaking through -- in both the majority and the 
concurring opinions, dissenting opinions in Sattazahn, 
recognized, hung counts speak nothing.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But in a sense that's 

Justice Scalia's point, that the jury has in effect told 
us nothing, and in effect that argument hurts your case 
in one sense.  Hung counts are meaningless.

 MR. BUFFONE:  Justice Kennedy, I agree that 

the hung counts are meaningless and that is my point, 
but I believe that it does further our analysis and the 
proper analysis that this Court should engage in.  And 
that is, do the acquittals have finality, and is there 
anything inconsistent with the jury's inability to reach 
a determination with the finality of its acquittals? 
The jury did not speak unanimously in its acquittals. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

There is no record way to determine why they failed to 
reach a determination, and they are therefore not 
inconsistent with the final determination --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  It shows -- it shows that 
-- that the point on which they -- you assert they were 
unanimous and the point on which you say later 
prosecution should be disallowed was in fact a point on 
which the jury was confused, because they would have 
come out the other way if indeed they were unanimous on 
the counts that -- that acquitted.  They should have 
come out the same way on the -- on the hung counts.

 MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, we simply don't 

know that.  The jury may have failed to reach a verdict 
for any number of reasons.  On the basis of this record, 
it's quite possible that the reason that the jury failed 
to reach a verdict was that it had 176 counts before it; 
that the jury, as set out in our reply brief, had made 
known to the district court that it was under severe 
financial stress.  The jurors wanted the trial to be 
over so that they could get back to their full-time 
employment, and one of the jurors actually asked to be 
removed from the jury because of that financial 
distress.

 In the face of that, the court gave a very 

unusual Allen charge; that after the jury had sent out a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

note saying that they were deadlocked, the court issued 
an Allen charge and 70 minutes later discharged the 
jury.  It -- the -- the point, Your Honor, is that we 
will never know why this jury --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  The point is that they were 
deadlocked and would not have been deadlocked, assuming 
we don't inquire into -- into the issue that Justice 
Souter raised -- they were deadlocked and would not have 
been deadlocked if indeed they made the -- the acquittal 
finding that you're relying upon for double jeopardy.

 MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, we know that they 

acquitted.  That is a certainty.  We have finality to 
those acquittals.  They were unanimous and are not 
subject to question again.  They cannot be subject to 
appeal, and they cannot be subject to overturning, even 
if they are egregiously erroneous.

 When we lay next to that the hung counts and 

the way that hung counts have historically been looked 
at, first not tolerated by courts:  Coercive means 
applied depriving jurors of food and drink and heat in 
cold climates until they reached a verdict; contemporary 
law where we permit Allen charges in a quest for 
unanimity to, wherever possible, have a jury speak its 
will.  We cannot equate, in the light of that history 
and the firm precedent of this Court, an inability to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

reach a decision with the finality and persuasion of an 
acquittal.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, if Powell 
extends to subsequent prosecutions -- I know you argue 
that it doesn't, but if it does, isn't it unusual that 
the defendant is in better shape if a jury hangs on the 
non-acquitted count than if he is convicted on the non-
acquitted count?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Well, Your Honor, that's a --
a two-edged sword, Mr. Chief Justice.  The defendant is 
on the opposite horns of that dilemma.  If the counts 
are not joined, then the effect of the acquittal would 
be to bar them by res judicata.  So by joinder, he's on 
the other side of that fence.  It's, as this Court 
recognized, whose ox is being gored in Powell by either 
the acquittals or the convictions.  Well, this is a case 
of whose ox is being gored by the joinder, and it should 
not be dispositive.  Collateral estoppel effect should 
apply to counts within an indictment just as res 
judicata would apply if they were separated.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  It's an obvious question, I 
guess.  I would just like to hear your answer directly. 
Case 1, count 1, selling drugs; count 2, using the 
telephone to sell the drugs.  All right?  The jury 
acquits of the first, convicts of the second.  Logically 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

impossible, but permitted under the law, right?

 MR. BUFFONE:  I agree, Your Honor.  Under 

Powell --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  Case 2 --
MR. BUFFONE:  -- there is no question.  We 
have conflicting verdicts, and we are not going to try 
to determine what the --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  Absolutely 

illogical.  Case 2, there is no count 1.  Case 2, 
telephone count, hung jury; we retry it.  Permitted, 
right?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Now, Your Honor, that would 

depend on what happened at the trial.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  All that happened was that 

they hung.

 MR. BUFFONE:  Well, if they hung, Your 

Honor, yes.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  Case 2, hung jury, 

telephone count; we retry it.  All right.  So now why is 
it when we put them together and, case 3, count 1, 
substantive drugs, acquitted; count 2, telephone, hung 
jury.  Well, in case 2 we could get a retrial of the 
telephone count.  Why can't we get a retrial of the 
telephone count now?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, it would depend. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE BREYER:  All that happened is they 
are retrying it just as they did in case 2.  Why does 
the presence of count 1 there mean that they can't retry 
it?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, the presence of 
count 1 in your hypothetical is not dispositive.  An 
acquittal on count 1 says --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I -- I'm going too fast 

because you didn't take the cases in.  Do you want me to 
repeat them?  Maybe it's too complicated.

 I'm just saying case 1, count 1, the 

substantive count, conviction.  On count 2, telephone 
count, acquittal.  Everybody agrees that's permissible. 
Case 2 is only the telephone.  That's all they indicted 
him for.  And if they have a hung jury, you can, can't 
you, retry him?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Yes, sir.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  So, now, when we have case 
3, which is the same as case 1 except that, instead of 
convicting him, they had a hung jury, why can't you 
retry him, just as you could in case 2?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Because a hung jury resolves 

nothing, Your Honor.  It doesn't --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Oh, everybody agrees it 

resolves nothing, and that's why you could retry him in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

-- that's why you could retry him in case 2, because it 
resolves nothing.  So if you could retry him in case 2, 
why can't you retry him in case 3?  What does the 
presence of this other substantive count have to do with 
it.  Since it never would have blocked the conviction on 
count 2, why does it stop you from retrying count 2?

 It would never have blocked the conviction 

of count 2.  Why does it stop you from retrying it?

 Do you see -- do you see my --
MR. BUFFONE:  Yes, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's the logical point I 
thought the other side was making, and maybe they're not 
because it seems to be striking you as surprising or 
maybe I'm not making it in a clear way.  But what I 
wanted was a clear answer to it.

 MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, I believe the --

the clear answer is that for collateral estoppel to 
attach, there must be a necessary determination of a 
factual issue, and the necessary determination of that 
factual issue can occur in your count 1 through an 
acquittal or a conviction.  It cannot occur through a 
hung count because there is nothing to be resolved. 
There is nothing that would be necessarily decided.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Mr. Buffone, you're --

you're going through a logical analysis.  If I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

understand your position, the logical analysis is not 
going to win the case for you because, as I understand 
the case that we've got in front of us, we have in 
effect two lines of authority, two models, that describe 
what the law might be in these circumstances. 
One model, on -- on the assumption that -- that the 
acquittals determined what you say they did, on that 
model there -- there is -- there is an issue preclusion 
that is raised.

 On the second model, the model of what we do 
in the case of a hung jury, there is no -- of course, no 
preclusion, and there is no bar to a retrial.  And we've 
simply got both in the same case.  The question is: 
Which model do we follow?  Do we say preclusion is the 
most important issue here, or do we say the 
open-endedness and uncertainty of the hung jury, the --
the failure to reach a verdict, is the model that --
that tells us what we ought to do?  How do we choose 
between those two possibilities, each of which is open 
to us?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Yes, Your Honor, I believe 

that that is a clear choice, and the rationale for the 
clarity of that choice is that acquittals have long been 
recognized as being important for finality purposes for 
double jeopardy law.  So, for example --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Look, I know that, and --

and by the same token, hung juries have long been 
recognized as raising no bar to a further trial.  And 
the question is:  Why are the values in the -- the 
acquittal case predominating, as you say they are, over 
the values of the retrial possibilities?  Why do I 
choose one rather than another?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Yes, Your Honor.  The -- the 

Perez line that tells us that when there is manifest 
necessity arising from a jury not reaching a verdict, 
that retrial is appropriate following a hung count. 
That line of cases stands in -- as I believe is the 
basis of Your Honor's question, stands in sharp contrast 
to the line of cases that require that jury acquittals 
be given final effect, cases like Foo Fong -- Fong Foo, 
excuse me.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  We have got both.
 MR. BUFFONE:  All right, so what --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  What -- what is it -- and I 
would almost suggest THAT it has to be something outside 
the lines of authority, because the issue here is which 
line of authority are you going to pick.  What is it 
outside the lines of authority that says we should -- we 
should pick the acquittal model rather than the hung 
jury model to determine what to do here? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, I think we should 
go -- the Court should go to the history of its double 
jeopardy jurisprudence, and that makes clear that the 
core concepts underlying the Double Jeopardy Clause are: 
First finality of jury verdicts; and, second, to avoid 
all of the constitutional perils of successive trials, 
because successive trials --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Can I ask you this about the 
finality of jury verdicts?  Is -- does the Constitution 
require either Federal or State law to permit the -- a 
partial verdict?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, I do not believe 
that -- I am not aware of a constitutional underpinning 
for that, but certainly the practices in the courts are 
to permit partial verdicts.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  In every State?
 MR. BUFFONE:  I do not know the answer to 

that question.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, if the Constitution 

doesn't require that, then why does the Constitution, in 
your view, require that issue preclusion occur when the 
jury acquits on certain counts but hangs on other 
counts?  If -- if a partial verdict were not required, 
and if the jury came back and said, we -- we've reached 
a verdict on some counts but not all counts, the remedy 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

would be a mistrial on all counts and a retrial on all 
counts.

 Why -- why is it does the Constitution 

require a different result if Federal law or State law 
chooses to allow the return of a partial verdict?

 MR. BUFFONE:  Your Honor, I don't believe 
that it would be a different result because I think in 
most jurisdictions, as I understand it, the reaction to 
that kind of a split verdict would be to try to get the 
jury to reach a full and final verdict, to give some 
form of an Allen charge to encourage additional 
deliberations, to seek unanimity in the jury's verdict. 
Where we don't have that unanimity, the Court is forced 
for collateral estoppel, for issue preclusion purposes, 
to Justice Ginsburg's point, not to claim preclusion 
issues.

 If we set aside claim preclusion, the Perez 

line of cases tells us to do what we do with claim 
preclusion.  For issue preclusion, the question is, is 
there some finality to what the jury did, in your 
hypothetical its partial verdict that speaks to the 
counts that it was not able to resolve.  And if it 
speaks, that after the Ashe analysis that there was an 
issue necessarily decided, then there is a bar under the 
doctrine of issue preclusion to the re-litigation of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that question.

 If there are no further questions, I would 
like to reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Dreeben.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. DREEBEN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 Two separate lines of double jeopardy 

analysis lead to the conclusion that the government can 
retry hung counts that occur in a verdict simultaneously 
with acquittals.  The first is the principle that the 
government may, under the doctrine of continuing 
jeopardy, try to obtain a verdict when a jury is hung. 
The basic principle there is that the government is 
entitled to one full and fair opportunity to convict and 
that the hung counts, when the jury cannot agree, 
interrupt and prevent the government from achieving 
that.  Double jeopardy therefore does not bar the 
government from completing its opportunity to obtain a 
verdict.

 The second doctrinal line is that which 

grows out of the Powell case.  Collateral estoppel is 
premised on the idea that the jury has acted rationally. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You are asking us 
for a pretty dramatic extension of Powell.  Powell is 
not a case involving subsequent prosecutions.

 MR. DREEBEN:  No.  Powell was a case in 
which the Court rejected the doctrine of collateral 
estoppel as a means of upsetting a mixed verdict of 
acquittals and convictions.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that's because 

in the same proceeding you have two different jury 
verdicts, one going the other way and one -- obviously, 
one way and one the other way.  So to protect the jury's 
conclusions, you couldn't give effect to one without 
undermining the other.

 It's a very different case here.  The only 
jury determination you have is the acquittal.  If you 
give effect -- if you don't give effect to the findings 
in the acquittal, you are undermining the jury, the only 
determination by the jury.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I don't think that it 

undermines that determination, Mr. Chief Justice, 
because the acquittals will stand as acquittals, and 
they will bar reprosecution on that offense.  To the 
extent that there are determinations that are made by 
the acquittals that are independent of any inconsistency 
with the hung counts, that too can have collateral 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

estoppel effect in a successive prosecution.

 But I think the crucial thing here is that 
this is not properly viewed as a successive prosecution 
for double jeopardy purposes.  Ashe v. Swenson and the 
cases --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, why not?  It is a 

successive prosecution.

 MR. DREEBEN:  No, it is not in the sense, I 
think, Justice Stevens that the Court used that in Ashe.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  It is in the sense of an 

indictment that took place after the other acquittal.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, that indictment simply 

embodies non-jeopardy-barred counts that --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Isn't there a difference 

in the fact that in the first case where there was a 
conflicting simultaneous verdict, one can explain the 
acquittal on grounds of leniency or compromise or 
something like that, that says that, therefore, we will 
give effect to the -- the conviction when they're 
simultaneous because of the reasons why there may be 
irrationality in the conflict.  But there is no reason 
to doubt the -- the validity of the acquittal in this 
case.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, no, I think that there 

is, Justice Stevens, if on the theory that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Petitioner propounds the verdict on the acquittals is 
inconsistent with the mistrial.  And that's the only way 
in which collateral estoppel could apply, only if the 
jury had necessarily determined a fact on the acquittals 
that should have led to acquittals on the insider 
trading counts.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But if they had time.  And 

when you have 150 counts, it's entirely possible they 
just didn't reach a decision on it.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I -- Petitioner's theory 

would be identical if there were one insider trading 
count.  And I think that for purposes of this case, the 
Court should not get too distracted by the number of 
counts, because all of the insider trading counts turned 
on a common core of fact.  They were all resolved 
identically --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  When you have a case in 

which there is no conflict between a guilty and an 
innocent verdict, there isn't -- there is no reason to 
doubt the integrity of the acquittal.

 MR. DREEBEN:  We're not questioning the 
integrity of the acquittal as far as it has direct 
double jeopardy application.  The question is whether 
the doctrine of collateral estoppel ought to be applied.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  And why not?  Because the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

answer to my question was exactly what Justice Stevens 
said.  Why is it that -- that if you could have the 
inconsistent verdicts in Powell, well, then, why can't, 
since they hung, couldn't you try him again on the hung 
count?  And the answer is, because you're trying him 
again.

 And that's why we have all the briefs that 
we have, because the only way to answer this is to look 
and see if the policies that underlie the collateral 
estoppel part of double jeopardy apply here.  And I 
can't think of one that doesn't.  I can't think of one 
single one that wouldn't apply.

 Maybe there are some.  And I can't think of 
any reason for allowing the government to have a second 
bite at this apple.  What is the reason?

 MR. DREEBEN:  The reason, Justice Breyer, is 

that the hung counts do not constitute a resolution in 
favor of the defendant.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Of course they don't.  Of 
course they don't.  Suppose that they never brought up 
that hung count.  Then you wouldn't even have the first 
bite at the apple.  So you would think it would be a 
fortiori you could go ahead.  But that's the case; you 
clearly can't go ahead.

 MR. DREEBEN:  But there's a reason for that, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Justice Breyer, that is grounded in double jeopardy 
policies.  And I think it goes to the question that 
Justice Souter asked as well, why the Court should 
prefer the double jeopardy doctrine that allows the 
government to retry the hung counts when they are all 
brought together in the same proceeding?  And that is 
this -- and I think it's made most vivid by imagining 
Ashe v. Swenson in a slightly different posture.

 Ashe v. Swenson involved robbery of six 

individuals at a poker game.  The government indicted 
each one of them as a separate robbery and the 
government tried one of them first.  And in that one, 
the jury's acquittal was understood to mean that the 
defendant was not the robber.  If the government could 
go sequentially through and try the other five, it has 
the opportunity to try to wear the defendant down or 
refine its case or improve its case in a way that the 
Court regarded as impermissible.

 But suppose that in Ashe the government 

hadn't done that, it had brought all six robbery 
prosecutions together, and the jury returned one verdict 
of acquittal on one robber and on the other five it 
hung?  In that situation I think -- which is the 
situation we have here --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But the reason for that is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

there are doubts about the integrity of the acquittal. 
They probably compromised, just to say not to be too 
tough on --

MR. DREEBEN:  But, Justice Stevens, that is 
identical to this case.  There is no difference to this 
case --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  No, here you have 

sequential prosecutions, and there is no reason to 
question the integrity of the acquittal in this case.

 MR. DREEBEN:  No.  But, Justice Stevens, if 

you would question the integrity of the acquittal, if 
the jury acquits on one robber and hangs on five, that 
is this case.  The only difference in this case is it's 
a securities fraud case.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I didn't think it had 

anything to do with integrity of anything.  I thought 
what it had to do with is that they are being tried at 
the same time.  And to test that out in my mind, I 
imagine this.  In February we try the individual for the 
drug count, he's acquitted.  In June we bring a 
telephone count.  Absolutely forbidden, right?

 MR. DREEBEN:  Correct.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  So why should the 
government be one whit better off because, in addition 
to doing that, they happened to bring a telephone count 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

in January along with the other?

 MR. DREEBEN:  There are two reasons for 
that, Justice Breyer.  The first is that the Double 
Jeopardy Clause is not aimed at preventing the 
government from attempting to bring its -- all of its 
charges in one indictment against the defendant.  What 
the collateral estoppel component is aimed at is the 
government going sequentially, carving its prosecution 
up into pieces, and trying in different attempts.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But -- isn't -- isn't the 

real problem that you raised by your answer the 
following problem:  That in this age in which there are, 
as Justice Breyer's hypo suggests, lots of overlapping 
criminal statutes -- you can indict not only for drugs 
but for telephones, and I don't know what other 
overlapping crimes there -- there may be.  Therefore, 
that gives the government by joining a lot of 
overlapping charges or lots of charges with common 
elements in either one indictment through various counts 
or simply by a series of indictments to be tried 
together -- it gives the government a bigger chance of 
getting a hung jury or some irrational resolution on 
some of those issues.  And if the government can bring 
loads of counts, increase the likelihood of getting a 
hung jury on one issue or one indictment, the government 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

in effect has a key to avoiding just what Justice 
Breyer's hypothetical suggested.

 If they wait and bring the second count in 

June, there's an issue preclusion.  But if they bring it 
together, they've got an irrational verdict and there's 
no issue preclusion.  Therefore, isn't the policy behind 
both double jeopardy and the issue preclusion extension 
a policy that argues in favor of saying don't let the 
government have all these bites at the apple, because in 
fact it results or can result in seriatim prosecutions? 
What's -- what's your response to that argument?

 MR. DREEBEN:  My response to that, Justice 
Souter, is that double jeopardy has always consisted of 
a balance of values.  There is of course the interest 
that Your Honor has identified, but the countervailing 
interest is that the government should have one full and 
fair opportunity to convict a defendant on charges that 
have been preferred by a grand jury on a showing of 
probable cause, and that does not occur when the hung 
counts deprive the government of that one opportunity.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But does the -- does the 
government ask for something more than one fair chance 
when it comes in with 117 counts?  Maybe the fair chance 
consists of a fair chance with a number of counts or a 
number of indictments that one can reasonably expect a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

-- a jury to handle without either getting totally 
confused or totally exhausted.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, let me -- let me give 

two answers to that, Justice Souter.  First of all, the 
position for which Petitioner argues does not depend on 
the number of counts.  If there had been two counts in 
the indictment --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  That's right, I'm making an 

argument that he did not make.

 MR. DREEBEN:  -- it would be the same.
 But more fundamentally, I think that the 

number of counts in this indictment should not lead the 
Court to think that this was a case in which the 
government overcharged in some nefarious effort.  First 
of all, nefarious efforts like that tend to backfire on 
the government, and that's why sound prosecution policy 
dictates against overcharging.  Here I don't think it's 
fair to regard the number of counts as a proxy for 
overcharging, and that is because they break up into 
logically distinct units.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Why not, when considering 

what the government did on its second chance?  It 
trimmed 5 -- if there were 20 insider trading, on the 
new indictment, there were 5.  There were 99 counts of 
laundering, which were trimmed to 8, something within 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the jury's ken.  But isn't the most likely thing in this 
case that the jury was simply exhausted?

 MR. DREEBEN:  I don't think so, Justice 

Ginsburg, because all of the insider trading counts turn 
on the same fact:  did Petitioner have inside 
information, did he know that the Enron broadband system 
that he was integrally involved in, was the strategic 
manager in charge of, wasn't working?  If he had that 
knowledge and he traded, the number of counts is really 
irrelevant, and I think that the fact that the jury 
resolved all of the insider trading counts the same way 
and the money laundering counts just had to do with the 
disposition of the proceeds, they're all resolved the 
same way.

 The jury obviously deadlocked on whether 

some fact that the government needed to prove for those 
counts was established.  And the bizarre thing, I think, 
about Petitioner's position is that he seeks to get 
through a legal doctrine, collateral estoppel, which is 
a big extension from what the Double Jeopardy Clause 
textually prohibits, exactly what the jury would not 
give him.  The jury --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, the -- the 
point about the big extension, you were rather coy in 
your brief about what you think about Ashe v. Swenson. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Are you asking us to revisit that?

 MR. DREEBEN:  No, Mr. Chief Justice, I don't 
think that the Court needs to revisit Ashe v. Swenson in 
order to resolve this case, but I think it's fair to say 
that Ashe v. Swenson is a doctrine that transposed 
certain civil policies that are -- are expressed through 
the doctrine of issue preclusion into the double 
jeopardy context in a way that was not supported by the 
history of the Fifth Amendment and is not supported by 
the text of the Double Jeopardy Clause, which requires 
the same events.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, you're not 
going to talk about -- you're not going to talk about 
the text of the Double Jeopardy Clause, are you?

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  If we rely on that 

the case is pretty easy, isn't it?

 MR. DREEBEN:  I think that it is because it 

says that the same offense is what you're protected 
against for double jeopardy, and the offenses in this 
case are distinct under Blockburger.  But my point 
about --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The person was in 

jeopardy on the hung offense as well.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, this Court has made 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

clear that the jeopardy continues until the government 
has the opportunity to obtain a verdict.  So the fact 
that his jeopardy began is not what entitles him to --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Under this Court's 

decisions, but not under the text of the Double Jeopardy 
Clause.

 MR. DREEBEN:  I think it then becomes a 

question of what is the meaning of jeopardy.  But 
insofar as the Court imported collateral estoppel into 
the Double Jeopardy Clause, it should keep in mind in 
deciding whether to extend that doctrine that in the 
civil context a crucial predicate for collateral 
estoppel is the ability of the adversely affected party 
to appeal, and that is because before we rely on 
collateral estoppel, we want to have some assurances 
that there actually is integrity to the necessarily 
determined fact that is going to preclude litigation in 
another case.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But the key to your 

argument is the government is entitled to one full and 
fair opportunity to try its case.  It had that 
opportunity the first time around.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I think that this 

Court's decisions since --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  If there were no separate 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

counts, that would have been -- that would have been a 
fair -- that would be the end of the matter.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Since 1824 this Court has 

defined the government's full and fair opportunity to 
include the right to retry if the jury hangs, and here 
what the defendant --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But it has -- but it has 

the right to retry in the same position as it would have 
been if it had not brought the first proceeding.  And if 
it had not brought the first proceeding in this case, it 
would have been barred.

 MR. DREEBEN:  No, I don't -- I don't agree 

that it's in the same position --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Why not?
 MR. DREEBEN:  -- as if it had not bought it.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Oh.
 MR. DREEBEN:  It's -- it -- in this case 
what the government did was to bring all of its cases 
together.  And I return to the hypothetical about 
Ashe v. Swenson because I think it strikes everyone as 
very strange to say that if the jury in Ashe v. Swenson 
had been presented with all six robbers and had 
acquitted on only one and had a returned -- you know, an 
inability to reach a verdict --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  That's why we have the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Dunn doctrine, which itself is questionable.  It 
basically says there is a certain situation in which we 
will tolerate what may be an irrational verdict, and the 
reason we tolerate it is that the acquittal itself may 
be explained on other grounds.  Namely --

MR. DREEBEN:  I'm not relying on Dunn in 

this hypothetical.  I'm presupposing that the jury hung 
with respect to the other five robbers.  And all the 
government would come back and say is:  For two separate 
reasons, we should be able to retry those counts against 
the other five robbers.  One is that when there is a 
hung jury it's settled double jeopardy law that the 
government has an opportunity to retry; and the other is 
if you accept the proposition that the jury's action was 
inconsistent because one of the robbers earned an 
acquittal and the other five logically should have been 
the same if the jury had found that the defendant wasn't 
the robber, the jury was unable to return a verdict.

 Collateral estoppel depends on the idea that 

there is a rational jury, and if the jury has acted 
inconsistently, we don't have that basis of rationality 
that supports the policy justifications of collateral 
estoppel.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But the whole -- whole 

doctrine of inconsistent verdicts depends on the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

assumption that what appears to be an irrational 
inconsistency may have another explanation.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Yes, such as lenity for the 
defendant.  The government doesn't get the opportunity 
to appeal an acquittal.  The government doesn't get the 
opportunity to go behind the acquittal and ask whether 
the jury acted rationally.  All of things -- those 
things are true in civil cases where the doctrine of 
issue preclusion applies.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Start the other side, which 

I think Justice Stevens was suggesting.  Assume that 
there was only one trial on the substantive count in 
January.  Now each -- he's acquitted.  Now you decide to 
indict him in July on the telephone count.  You argue to 
the judge:  Judge, there shouldn't be double jeopardy 
here because maybe the jury just acquitted him the first 
time because they were lenient.  Maybe they liked his 
looks.  Maybe they were distracted by a fly.  Maybe they 
were, maybe they were -- and we didn't even get an 
appeal.  Are you going to win that case?

 MR. DREEBEN:  Not under --
JUSTICE BREYER:  No, not even a close. 

Okay.  Not even close.

 Now, since you're going to lose that case, I 

grant you there's thousands of case talking about your 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

ability to bring more cases if you have a hung jury.  I 
concede all those.  None of them talks about double 
jeopardy, to my knowledge.

 So we're back to the hypothetical.  You've 

lost your case.  Now, all that you did to turn that case 
into a winning case was you also indicted him on the 
telephone count in January.  Now, that was my question 
the first time, and you began to have two answers.  I 
just didn't see why the government should be any better 
off because they also indicted him in January.  Given 
the language "double jeopardy," you might think the 
government, if anything, should be worse off, but let's 
keep them neutral.

 So what is the reason that the government 

should be worse off because they indicted him in January 
on the telephone count as well as in June?

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, the government should 

not be worse off.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  No, no -- better.  I 

misspoke.

 MR. DREEBEN:  I think the reason is that 
when, Justice Breyer, you said double jeopardy is not 
involved in the cases involving the government's ability 
to retry on a hung count, that's not accurate.  The 
Court has regarded the doctrine of double jeopardy as a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

balance of policies, and one of the fundamental policies 
is when the jury cannot agree, the government has the 
right to retry.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I think that's 
right, and your argument depends upon that interest 
balancing against the interest in giving effect to the 
acquittal verdict.

 Now, what if I think, under the Seventh 

Amendment that's -- that what is important is protecting 
jury verdicts?  And the interest in the irrational case, 
when you have a conviction and acquittal, is that you 
have two jury verdicts and you can't go one way or the 
other without undermining one of them.  Here, however, 
you can give full effect to the verdict of acquittal 
without undermining another jury verdict.  You certainly 
undermine the government's interest in prosecuting after 
a hung jury, but if I think what's important under the 
Seventh Amendment is the jury verdicts, then the case 
comes out the other way, right?

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I don't think so, Mr. 
Chief Justice, because I think you still have to focus 
on the intrinsic character of the doctrine of issue 
preclusion, which does depend on a rational jury.  Let's 
apply it to the facts of this case, because there is --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, you qualify it in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

your statement of the facts.  Is there any insider 
information with relation to the insider information 
charges that is different in any respect from the 
insider information in connection with the substantive 
challenge?

 MR. DREEBEN:  No, Justice Ginsburg, there is 

not.  The government's theory here was that on the 
substantive securities fraud count, which related to the 
January 20th, 2000, analysts meeting, Mr. Yeager was 
integrally involved in formulating the message and was 
therefore accountable for misstatements to the 
marketplace about Enron broadband communications 
efficacy and effectiveness and technological value.  The 
jury, if it rejected that, would acquit on those counts 
-- on that count, without reaching the question did Mr. 
Yeager know factually that the statements that were made 
by others at that analysts conference and in the press 
releases subsequently were inaccurate?  If the answer to 
that question is yes, he had the information, then he 
could be liable for insider trading even though he is 
not liable for substantive securities fraud because he 
had nothing to do with creating the statements or 
misstatements to the marketplace.

 And I think I do take issue with 

Petitioner's suggestion that the theory of this case was 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

an omissions theory.  The way that Mr. Yeager argued the 
case to the jury was that I didn't have any involvement 
in preparing or making statements at that January 20th 
analysts conference; you can't convict me of what other 
people may have said.  And the jury instructions advised 
the jury that it had to find that he participated in the 
scheme and that he either made the statements or caused 
the statements or omissions to be made.  If it rejected 
that, it easily acquits on the securities fraud.  And as 
a result even if this Court were inclined to apply 
collateral estoppel across mixed counts in a verdict of 
acquittals and hung counts, which we submit it should 
not do, the defendant still has to carry his burden of 
showing necessarily that the jury resolved an issue of 
fact in his favor that would preclude the next 
prosecution.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, he -- he 

carried that burden before the court of appeals.

 MR. DREEBEN:  But the court of appeals 

relied on the view that Mr. Yeager did not contest that 
he participated in the planning and preparation and 
statements that were made.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Revisiting of that 

issue was not included within the question presented.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I think it's included in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

our ability to defend the judgment.  The District Court 
in this case made it quite clear that collateral 
estoppel did not apply because the acquittals could rest 
on the basis that Mr. Yeager did not participate in the 
analysts conference and in the press statements that 
were the basis for the wire fraud and the securities 
fraud omissions.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So if we -- if we 
agree with you on that proposition, then the conflict 
that we granted cert to resolve would still continue.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, you could resolve it.  I 

would hope that you would resolve it in a favor of a 
disposition that doesn't require you to reach the 
factual issue, but if the Court resolves the legal issue 
against us, I think it should revisit the analysis of 
the court of appeals because government isn't defending 
the precise way in which the court of appeals went about 
analyzing the double jeopardy issue, and its question of 
what facts were necessarily determined was resolved 
incorrectly, I think, as a matter of clear error.  I 
don't even think Mr. Yeager will stand up on rebuttal 
and tell you that he didn't argue to the jury that his 
client was not involved in -- in the creation of the 
statements at that analyst meeting because he did make 
that argument. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

And I do think that it's important that if 

the Court is going to go down a track of allowing 
collateral estoppel for mixed verdicts, that it 
encourage rigor in the way that courts determine whether 
a fact was necessarily decided by the jury.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, on that first 

theory, and your theory that a retrial on hung counts is 
always permitted, I -- I take it there are no court of 
appeals opinions or decisions that agree with you on 
that point, or am I incorrect?

 MR. DREEBEN:  They have not reasoned it the 
way that the government reasons it, but I think that the 
Fifth Circuit's result is equivalent to what the 
government argued as well as the D.C. Circuit.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  A different question: 

Suppose you prevail.  The hung counts are retried.  And 
the jury hangs again and the jury hangs a second time. 
Is there any point at which the district court can 
intervene in the exercise of its own authority and 
discretion just to dismiss the charges?

 MR. DREEBEN:  I don't think so, Justice 
Kennedy, because I think the interest that's being 
vindicated here is a balance of interests, and it's --
as I responded to the Chief Justice and -- and referred 
to Justice Souter's question earlier, double jeopardy 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

has never been a jurisprudence of black and white.  You 
could you read the clause as saying one trial for a 
defendant.  If the defendant is -- doesn't get a 
conviction at that trial, game over.  But the Court has 
never done that because the double jeopardy clause has 
always involved a balance of the society's very 
important interests in having the opportunity for a 
decision up or down on whether a defendant is guilty.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Then the government can 
try year after year to get a conviction and were the 
defendant down?  Nothing the Court can do so long as 
there's a hung jury?

 MR. DREEBEN:  If the -- if the jury hangs, 

the government can retry, and there have been cases 
where --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Is that the rule in all of 

the States?  Don't some States give authority to the 
judges to say, enough is enough?

 MR. DREEBEN:  I am not aware whether any 

States do, but certainly as a matter of double jeopardy, 
this Court has never suggested that there is.  I think 
as a matter of common sense, prosecutors who are unable 
to achieve a verdict after a certain number of trials do 
tend to conclude that it's not in the interest of 
society to keep trying.  But certainly one hung jury 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

followed by a retrial is customary rather than an 
exception to the rule, and the reason why that's --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But one hung jury followed 

by a second when there has been an acquittal the first 
time around is not customary.

 MR. DREEBEN:  But the --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  So the difference is in 

the -- in the first trial, you're not impugning the 
integrity of the jury's verdict.  You're following the 
acquittal, and that's true in the compromise cases, the 
Dunn case and those cases, but that's not the case here 
because you're talking about two different juries. 
You're saying the second jury should have an -- an 
opportunity to correct what the first jury did, even 
though it would not have that opportunity if the first 
jury had not faced the issue.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, I -- I -- Justice 

Stevens, all I can say is that if the first jury had 
really believed that Mr. Yeager acted in good faith and 
was completely innocent, it should have acquitted on all 
counts.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  It should have, but it 
didn't.  We know that.  And we just know they did not 
reach a conclusion on this issue, but they did reach a 
conclusion on the count on which they acquitted. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. DREEBEN:  We should have -- we should 
presume that, as we do in other areas of the law, that 
the jury followed the instructions that it was given, 
and the instructions that it was given --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Do you make the same 

presumption when there is an inconsistent verdict, but 
you say even if it's irrational we'll go along with it 
because of the one jury, and they may have had non --
unsound legal reasons for saying, well, we'll let the 
guy off on the one count.

 MR. DREEBEN:  But I think that there is no 
reason for the fact that a jury takes irrational action 
to then be used for the jury's acquittal to block 
complete prosecution.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  The jury did not take 
irrational action in this case.  The only action --
that's relevant was the acquittal.  The other they 
didn't act.

 MR. DREEBEN:  Well, they acted irrationally 

in the sense that if a fact necessarily determined 
acquittals on the -- on the insider trading counts --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  It would be irrational if 

they had returned a verdict, but they said we can't 
agree for who knows why.

 MR. DREEBEN:  But the point is they should 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

have agreed logically if they believed that Mr. Yeager 
never had inside information or acted in good faith. 
And the jury is instructed to consider each count, count 
by count, it was given instructions at the Allen phase 
of the case that it should strive to achieve a verdict, 
that Mr. Yeager is entitled to a verdict of not guilty 
if, in fact, the jury believes that he is not guilty and 
that it should make every effort to reach the verdict.
 Now, the fact that it didn't, and it would 
have been very easy for it to do, if it had determined 
logically that he did not have inside information, is a 
reason for hesitating before extrapolating out from 
those acquittals and blocking the government's 
opportunity to retry the hung counts.

 Mr. Yeager's position logically --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  It's not all that clear, 

because as you argue the court -- the district court was 
correct in analyzing the -- the estoppel issue.  And 
it's obviously a very difficult issue because judges 
have disagreed about it and the government and your 
opponent disagree on it.  So, it's entirely possible 
that the jury wasn't able to figure it all out.

 MR. DREEBEN:  I -- I don't think it is that 
difficult of an issue.  I think the district court which 
was closer to it, which had presided over the trial and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

which read the closing arguments, made findings that 
make it quite clear what Mr. Yeager argued and how those 
arguments were totally consistent --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  The jury could not have 

been as confused as the court of appeals was.
 MR. DREEBEN:  I'm not sure that --
(Laughter.)
 MR. DREEBEN:  If the jury was confused and 

it acted in an irrational manner, that's a reason not to 
apply collateral estoppel, not a reason to do it.  What 
Mr. Yeager's theory implies is that if the jury had come 
back and -- under the Federal Rules of Criminal 
Procedure it can return partial verdicts.  If the jury 
had come back and said we're struggling on some of the 
counts, we have a partial verdict on others of them, and 
the judge said, okay, we'll take the partial verdict; 
and the jury came in and said, we acquit on five counts, 
that Mr. Yeager's theory would be that the judge should 
say that's great, collateral estoppel now means you 
don't get to finish the deliberations on the counts on 
which you said you can't agree.  And that result makes 
no sense, neither does blocking retrial in this case.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Your -- your theory 

depends upon viewing a hung jury as constituting some 
action by the jury.  Now, obviously it does in some 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

sense.

 But if you view -- if you accept the 

proposition that juries only act by returning verdicts, 
and that's the reason you can retry, because with a hung 
jury the jury hasn't really done anything in the way 
jurors act, then the case comes out -- then the 
defendant prevails, right?

 MR. DREEBEN:  I assume I can answer your 

question, Mr. Chief Justice?

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Yes.
 MR. DREEBEN:  No, because the -- the logic 
of the situation here is that in order for collateral 
estoppel to apply, there needs to be a rational jury 
verdict.  And Ashe versus Swenson tells us that in 
attempting to decide what the jury rationally resolved, 
we look at all evidence in the record, not just some.
 So it isn't necessary to treat the jury's 
hung counts as if they are verdicts of a sort.  They 
simply are data which show that if the jury had been 
rational and it had resolved a fact in favor of the 
defendant that was necessary for the government to prove 
on the other counts, it would have resolved those as 
acquittals as well.  And once you take into account that 
total record, the doctrine of collateral estoppel with 
its premise of rationality cannot be applied. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Buffone, you have six minutes remaining.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SAMUEL J. BUFFONE

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
 MR. BUFFONE:  The Solicitor General has 

essentially asked this Court to take a metaphysical view 
of the Double Jeopardy Clause, but the teachings of this 
Court from Sealfon through Ashe is that the important 
protections of the Double Jeopardy Clause as applied to 
issue preclusion must be approached with reason, with 
rationality, with a non-hypertechnical view in order to 
protect the public policies that underlie the Double 
Jeopardy Clause.  And that is quite simply that what 
happened here should not occur.  That a defendant should 
not be forced to relitigate before a second jury an 
issue that was necessarily decided.

 I sat through and argued through 

13-and-a-half-week jury trial.  A reasonable and 
rational explanation of what occurred there is that we 
had a conscientious jury that followed its instructions, 
that tried to reach through a complex 176-count 
indictment, and they simply were not able to.  They 
spoke the community will, and they spoke it forcefully 
in their acquittals.  Six of them.

 And the only conclusion that can be reached 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

from those acquittals is that Mr. Yeager did not possess 
insider information.

 At the beginning of this trial we filed two 

motions, the first challenging the specificity of the 
indictment, and the second seeking a Bill of 
Particulars.  The district court answered both with the 
same answer.  The insider information that Mr. Yeager is 
charged with possessing in the insider trader counts is 
the false statements made by others at the 2000 Analysts 
Conference.

 The omissions theory was not as the 

Solicitor General submits, some afterthought.  It was 
core to the government's prosecution and it was core to 
the case.  The jury decided that the omissions theory 
was not a basis to convict on the six counts that it 
acquitted.  It determined that Mr. Yeager did not 
possess that information.  And Mr. Yeager is entitled to 
the benefits of those acquittals.  Thank you.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 The case is submitted.
 (Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

A 

ability 33:13 
37:1,23 41:1 

able 20:22 35:10 

46:22 49:22 
above-entitled 

1:11 50:22 

Absolutely 14:8 

27:21 

accept 35:14 

48:2 

accepted 9:17 
account 9:19 

accountable 

48:23 

39:11 

accurate 37:24 
achieve 43:23 

46:5 

achieving 21:19 
acquit 39:14 

47:17 

acquits 9:14 
13:25 19:22 
27:12 40:9 

acquittal 3:10 

3:16,24 4:2,17 
7:22 8:4 9:9,12 
9:21,24 10:1 
12:9 13:2,12 
15:7,13 16:21 
18:5,24 22:15 
22:17 23:11,17 
23:22 24:20,22 
26:13,22 27:1 
27:9,11 35:4 
35:16 36:5,6 
38:7,11,14 
44:4,10 45:13 
45:17 

acquittals 3:13 

8:4 9:2,3,5 
10:10,22,24,25 
12:13 13:16 
17:7,23 18:14 
21:13 22:7,21 
22:21,24 24:1 

24:4,5 40:12 
41:3 45:21 
46:13 48:23 
49:24 50:1,18 

allows 26:4 
alternative 6:20 
alternatives 

6:22 

acquitted 11:10  Amendment 
32:9 38:9,18 

12:12 13:8 
14:21 27:20 
34:23 36:13,16 
44:20,25 50:16 
act 45:18 48:3,6 
acted 21:25 
35:20 36:7 
44:19 45:19 
46:2 47:9 
action 35:14 
45:12,16,16 
47:25 

analysis 5:1 7:15 
10:20,21 16:25 
17:1 20:23 
21:11 41:15 
analyst 41:24 
analysts 5:14 
39:9,17 40:4 
41:5 50:9 

analyzed 5:5 
analyzing 41:18 

46:18 

answer 13:22 

addition 27:24 
additional 20:11 
addressed 8:25 
admissions 5:6 
adversely 33:13 
answered 50:6 
advised 40:5 
affirmative 4:18  answers 30:4 
affirmatively 

16:15,17 19:17 
25:1,5,8 28:11 
39:18 48:8 
50:7 

37:8 

5:17 

afterthought 

50:12 

age 28:12 
agree 5:19 7:1 

appeal 12:15 

33:14 36:5,20 
appeals 40:18 

40:19 41:16,17 
42:9 47:5 

1:14 

APPEARAN... 

10:18 14:2 
21:18 34:12 
38:2 41:9 42:9  appears 36:1 
Appendix 4:8 
45:24 47:21 
apple 25:15,22 

agreed 46:1 
agrees 15:13,24 
ahead 25:23,24 
aimed 28:4,7 
ALITO 6:10 7:1  applied 12:20 
24:24 48:25 
49:9 

19:8,16,19 
alleged 9:23 
Allen 11:25 12:2  applies 36:9 

24:23 

29:9 

12:22 20:11 
46:4 

allow 20:5 
allowing 25:14 

42:2 

apply 13:19,20 
24:3 25:10,12 
38:24 40:10 
41:3 47:10 
48:13 

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

approached 

appropriate 

49:10 

18:11 

areas 45:2 
argue 8:17,17 
13:4 36:14 
41:22 46:17 
argued 5:16 
40:1 42:14 
47:2 49:17 

attach 16:18
attached 8:23
attempting 28:5

48:15

attempts 28:9
attorney 5:6
authority 17:4
18:21,22,23
42:19 43:17

43:19

avoid 19:5
avoiding 29:1
argues 29:8 30:5  aware 19:13
arguing 6:8 
argument 1:12 
2:2,7 3:4,6,22 
3:23 4:8 6:11 
10:16 21:6
29:11 30:9
33:20 38:5
41:25 49:3

a.m 1:13 3:2 

50:21

B

back 4:16 11:20 

19:24 35:9
37:4 47:12,14
backfire 30:15
balance 29:14

38:1 42:23
43:6

balancing 38:6
bar 13:13 17:12 

18:3 20:24
21:20 22:22
barred 34:11
based 6:12 7:3 
basic 21:16
basically 6:4

35:2

basis 11:14

18:13 35:21
41:4,6 50:15 
began 6:8 33:3 

37:8

beginning 50:3
behalf 1:15,18
2:4,6,9 3:7 
21:7 49:4

belief 8:1
believe 5:2 7:16 
8:25 10:4,4,20
16:16 17:21
18:12 19:12

arguments 5:9

7:14 47:1,3

arises 9:4
arising 18:10
Ashe 3:17,22 5:3 

7:15,18,19
8:21 9:19 10:4 
20:23 23:4,9
26:8,9,19
31:25 32:3,5
34:20,21 48:14 
49:8

Ashe-type 8:22
aside 20:17
asked 11:21
26:3 49:6

assert 11:5
assume 5:24
36:11 48:8
assumed 4:24
assumes 3:23
assuming 12:6
assumption 4:6
4:17 17:6 36:1 

assurances

33:15

application 3:16  asking 22:1 32:1 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

23:5 34:18 
36:8 37:1,23 
43:14 44:10,11 

7:25 8:12,16 
9:10 10:3,18 
11:12 12:11 
13:9 14:2,5,12 
14:16,25 15:5 
15:17,22 16:10  cert 41:10 
16:16,24 17:21  certain 19:22 
18:8,18 19:1 
19:12,17 20:6 
49:2,3,5 

32:6 35:2 
43:23 

10:2,5 17:5 

civil 32:6 33:12 

36:8 

cause 6:18 29:19  claim 8:9,9,17 
caused 40:7 
20:15,17,18 
clarification 

31:20 32:10,14 
33:6,10 43:2,5 
49:7,9,13 

certainly 19:14 
38:15 43:20,25 
certainty 12:12 
challenge 39:5 
challenging 50:4  clear 4:20 5:12 
chance 28:21 
6:24 16:14,15 
29:22,23,24 
16:17 17:22 
19:3 33:1 41:2 
30:22 
41:20 46:16 
47:2 

8:19 

clarified 7:13 
clarity 17:23 
clause 19:4 28:4  completing 

44:20 

24:15 28:18 
43:22 

communicatio... 

39:12 

community 

49:23 

complete 45:14 
completely 

21:21 

complex 49:21 
complicated

15:10 

component 28:7 
compromise
23:17 44:10 
compromised

27:2 

concede 37:2 
concepts 19:4 
conclude 43:24 
conclusion 

21:11 44:24,25
49:25 

conclusions 

20:6 

46:1 

believed 44:19 

believes 46:7 
benefits 50:18 
better 13:6 

27:24 37:9,19 

big 31:20,24 
bigger 28:21 
Bill 50:5 
bite 25:15,22 
bites 29:9 
bizarre 31:17 
black 43:1 
block 45:13 
Blockburger 

32:21 

blocked 16:5,7 
blocking 46:13 

47:22 
boils 6:1 
bought 34:15 
break 30:19 
Breyer 13:21 
14:4,8,14,18 
15:1,8,18,24 
16:11 24:25 
25:16,19 26:1 
27:15,23 28:3 
36:10,22 37:19 
37:22 

Breyer's 28:13 

29:2 

brief 3:24 9:16 
11:17 31:25 

briefs 5:21 25:7 
bring 27:20,25 
28:5,23 29:3,4 
34:18 37:1 

broadband 31:6 

39:12 

brought 25:20 
26:6,20 34:9 
34:10 

Buffone 1:15 2:3 
2:8 3:5,6,8,19 
5:2 6:5,19 7:5 

burden 40:13,18 

C
C 2:1 3:1 
called 3:18
candid 4:4
carried 40:18
carry 40:13
carving 28:8
case 3:18,21
7:19 10:16
13:16,23 14:4 
14:9,9,18,20
14:22 15:2,11
15:14,18,19,21
16:1,2,3 17:2,3 
17:11,13 18:5 
21:24 22:3,4
22:14 23:15,23
24:12,17 25:23 
26:17,17 27:5 
27:6,9,13,13
27:14 30:13
31:2 32:4,17
32:21 33:18,21
34:10,17 36:20 
36:24,25 37:5 
37:5,6 38:10 
38:18,24 39:25 
40:2 41:2
44:11,11 45:16 
46:5 47:22
48:6 50:14,20
50:21

cases 8:22 9:14 
15:9 18:12,14
18:15 20:18

character 38:22 
charge 7:21 
11:25 12:2 
20:11 31:8 
charged 4:14 

7:6 50:8 

charges 12:22 

28:6,18,18 
29:17 39:3 
42:20 

Chief 3:3,8 13:3 

13:10 21:4,8 
22:1,8,20 
31:23 32:2,12 
32:16,23 33:4 
38:4,21 40:17 
40:23 41:8 
42:24 47:23 
48:9,10 49:1 
50:19 

choice 17:22,23 
choose 17:18 

18:7 

chooses 20:5 
Circuit 42:14 
Circuit's 42:13 
circumstance 

9:22 

circumstances 
4:13 9:20,21 

clearly 25:24 
client 3:25 4:10 
4:17 5:8 6:17 
41:23 

climates 12:21 
close 9:22 36:22 

36:23 

conference 5:14 

22:12 

10:12 

concurring

39:17 40:4 
41:5 50:10 
conflict 23:21 
24:18 41:9 

closer 46:25 
closing 5:9 47:1 
Coercive 12:19 
cold 12:21 
collateral 8:18 
13:18 16:17 
20:14 21:24 
22:5,25 24:3 
24:24 25:9 
28:7 31:19 
33:9,12,15 
35:19,22 40:11 
41:2 42:3 
47:10,19 48:12  conscientious 
48:24 

confused 11:8 

30:2 47:5,8

23:16 

49:20 

conflicting 14:6 

connection 39:4 

come 4:16 11:9 

11:11 35:9 
47:11,14 

comes 29:23 
38:19 48:6 
common 9:17 

consider 46:3 
considering

30:21 

consisted 29:13 
consistent 47:3 
consists 29:24 

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

constitute 25:17 
constituting 

47:24 

Constitution 
19:9,19,20 
20:3 

constitutional 

19:6,13 

consumed 6:2 
contemporary 

12:21 

contending 8:7 
contest 40:20 
context 32:8 

33:12 

continue 41:10 
continues 33:1 
continuing 

21:14 

contrast 18:13 
convert 5:23 
convict 6:12,24 

21:17 29:17 
40:4 50:15 

convicted 13:7 
convicting 15:20 
conviction 15:12 

16:5,7,21 
23:19 38:11 
43:4,10 

convictions 
13:16 22:7 

convicts 13:25 
core 8:2,3 19:4 

24:15 50:13,13 

correct 4:5,19 
5:15,17 8:16 
27:22 44:14 
46:18 

correction 4:21 
counsel 7:14 

13:3 21:4 49:1 
50:19 

count 3:15 9:25 
13:7,8,23,23 
14:9,10,19,20 
14:21,23,24 

15:3,6,7,11,12 
15:12,13 16:4 
16:6,6,8,20,22 
18:11 24:12 
25:5,21 27:20 
27:21,25 29:3 
36:12,14 37:7 
37:16,24 39:8 
39:15 44:25 
45:10 46:3,3,4 

33:9 34:3 
37:25 40:10,18 
40:19 41:1,14 
41:16,17 42:2 
42:8,18 43:4 
43:11,21 46:17 
46:17,24 47:5 
49:6,8 50:6 
courts 12:19 
19:14 42:4 
countervailing  Court's 3:17 

cross-examina... 

counts 3:14 9:5 

47:12 

29:15 

33:4,24 
coy 31:24 
creating 39:22 
creation 41:23 
crimes 28:16 

crucial 23:2 

5:11,20 6:2,7 
7:14 

9:6,8,11,16 
10:9,13,17,19 
11:10,11,16 
12:17,18 13:11  criminal 28:14 
13:19 19:22,23 
19:25,25 20:1 
20:2,22 21:12 
21:18 22:25 
23:13 24:6,8 
24:14,14 25:17 
26:5 28:19,24 
29:20,23,24 
30:6,6,12,18 
30:24 31:4,9 
31:11,12,17 
34:1 35:10 
39:14 40:11,12 
42:7,16 44:21 
45:21 46:14 
47:15,17,20 
48:18,22 50:8 
50:15 

12:6,6,8,9
31:15

36:13 48:15

44:5 

course 5:7 17:11 
25:19,20 29:14 
court 1:1,12 3:9 
5:4,5 8:19,23 
9:13,15 10:6,7 
10:11,21 11:18 
11:24 12:1,25 
13:14 19:2 
20:13 21:9 
22:5 23:9 
24:13 26:3,18 
30:13 32:3,25 

46:24 

defendant's 

22:9,14 26:8 
26:14,16 28:6 
28:9 39:3 
29:17 34:6 
35:17 36:4 
42:15 44:12 
40:13 43:3,3,8  difficult 46:19 
43:11 48:7,21 
49:14 

dilemma 13:11 
direct 24:22 
directly 13:22 
defending 41:16  disagree 46:21 
disagreed 46:20 
defined 34:4 
disallowed 11:7 
deliberations 
discharged 12:2 
20:12 47:20 
disclose 6:13,18 
Department 

3:11 5:6 

1:18 

7:4 

depend 14:13,25  discretion 42:20 

30:5 38:23 

depends 35:19 

35:25 38:5 
47:24 

dismiss 42:20 
disposition 

31:13 41:13 

dispositive 
13:18 15:6 

32:21 

33:12 

distinct 30:20 

deprive 29:20 
depriving 12:20  dissenting 10:12 
Deputy 1:17 
derive 10:6,7 
customary 44:1  describe 17:4 
despite 5:24 
determination 
3:11,12 10:24 
11:2,3 16:18 
16:19 22:15,18 
22:20 

distress 11:23 
district 11:18 
41:1 42:18 
46:17,24 50:6 
doctrinal 21:23 
determinations  doctrine 20:25 

D 3:1
data 48:19
deadlocked 12:1

distracted 24:13 

36:18 

D

decide 3:14 7:17 

decided 7:22 8:6 

8:15,23 9:20 
10:8 16:23
20:24 42:5
49:16 50:14
deciding 33:11
decision 3:17

13:1 24:9 43:8 

decisions 33:5

33:24 42:9
defend 41:1
defendant 7:23
13:6,10 25:18 

22:23 

determine 11:1 

14:7 18:25 
42:4 

determined 3:25 

17:7 24:4 
33:17 41:19 
45:20 46:10 
50:16 

determining 

9:20 

dictates 30:17 
difference 23:14 

27:5,13 44:7 
different 7:19 
7:24 20:4,7 

21:14 22:5 
24:24 26:4 
31:19 32:5,7
33:11 35:1,25
36:8 37:25 
38:22 48:24 

doing 27:25 
double 8:2,8
10:1 12:10 
17:25 19:2,4
21:10,20 23:4 
24:23 25:10 
26:1,4 28:3 
29:7,13 31:20 
32:7,10,14,20
33:5,10 35:12 

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

36:15 37:2,11 
37:22,25 41:18 
42:25 43:5,20 
49:7,9,12 
doubt 23:22 

24:20 

17:4 18:15 
22:12,16,16 
23:1,19 29:1 
38:6,14 

effectiveness 

39:13 

46:8 

12:16 

efforts 30:15 
egregiously 

efficacy 39:13 
effort 8:5 30:14 

13:15 19:10 
28:19 30:1 
40:7 

doubts 27:1 
Dowling 5:4,5 
dramatic 22:2 
Dreeben 1:17 
2:5 21:5,6,8 
22:4,19 23:8 
23:12,24 24:10  either 6:22 
24:21 25:16,25 
27:4,10,22 
28:2 29:12 
30:3,10 31:3 
32:2,15,18,25 
33:7,23 34:3 
34:12,15,17 
35:6 36:3,21 
37:17,21 38:20 
39:6 40:19,25 
41:11 42:11,21 
43:13,19 44:6 
44:17 45:1,11 
45:19,25 46:23  enhance 7:9 
47:6,8 48:8,11  Enron 7:9 31:6 

element 6:21 
elements 28:19 
elucidated 7:12 
embodies 23:13 
employment 

engage 7:10 

10:21 

drink 12:20 
drug 27:20 
drugs 13:23,24 
14:21 28:14 
Dunn 35:1,6 

44:11 

duty 5:14 6:13 

6:17 7:4 

D.C 1:8,15,18 

42:14 

E 
E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 42:25 
earned 35:15 
easily 40:9 
easy 32:17 46:10 
effect 9:4 10:15 
10:16 13:12,18 

entirely 24:8 

39:12 

46:21 

entirety 5:9 
entitled 21:17 
33:20 46:6 
50:17 

entitles 33:3 
equate 12:24 
equivalent 9:9,9 

42:13 

erroneous 12:16 
error 41:20 
ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 

essentially 3:25 

2:5,8 

49:6 

establish 4:2 
established 

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

example 17:25 
exception 44:2 
excuse 18:16 
encourage 20:11  exercise 42:19 
exhausted 30:2 

11:21 

42:4 

29:8 40:15 
41:12 48:20 

Fong 18:15,15 
February 27:19  Foo 18:15,15 
Federal 19:10 

31:17 

estoppel 8:19 
13:18 16:17 
20:14 21:24 
22:6 23:1 24:3 
24:24 25:10 
28:7 31:19 
33:9,13,15 
35:19,23 40:11 
41:3 42:3 
46:18 47:10,19 
48:13,24 
event 7:20 
events 32:11 
everybody 
15:13,24 

evidence 48:16 
exactly 25:1 

31:21 

24:4,15 29:10 
31:5,10,16 
33:2,17 40:15 
42:5 45:12,20 
46:7,9 48:20 

facts 4:22 38:24 

39:1 41:19 

factual 16:19,20 

41:14 

factually 39:16 
failed 11:1,13,15 
failure 17:17 
fair 21:17 29:17 

29:22,23,24 
30:18 32:4 
33:21 34:2,4 

faith 44:19 46:2 
false 50:9 
far 24:22 
fast 15:8 
favor 3:11 25:18 

31:2 

expect 29:25 
explain 23:16 
explained 35:5 
explanation 
36:2 49:19 

expressed 32:6 
extend 33:11 
extends 13:4 
extension 22:2 
29:7 31:20,24 

extent 22:23 
extrapolating 

46:12 

eyes 9:22 
F

F 1:3
face 11:24
faced 44:16
fact 4:2,11,12
5:21,25 6:18 
8:5 11:7 23:15 

20:4 47:12 
fence 13:14 
Fifth 32:9 42:13 
figure 46:22 
filed 50:3 
final 3:11 9:3,6 

11:3 18:15 
20:10 

finality 8:4 9:1,2 

10:10,22,24 
12:12 13:1 
17:24 19:5,9 
20:20 

financial 11:19 

11:22 

find 4:10 5:25 
6:15 7:2 40:6 
finding 12:10 
findings 22:16 

47:1 

finish 47:20 
firm 12:25 

first 5:3 6:5,19 
6:21 7:25 8:3 
9:21 10:3 
12:19 13:25 
19:5 21:13 
23:15 25:21 
26:12 28:3 
30:4,14 33:22 
34:9,10 36:16 
37:8 42:6 44:4 
44:8,14,15,18 
50:4 

five 26:15,22 

27:12 35:8,11 
35:16 47:17 

fly 36:18 
focus 38:21 
follow 17:14 
followed 44:1,3 

45:3 49:20 

following 18:11 

28:12 44:9 

food 12:20 
forbidden 27:21 
force 9:12 
forced 20:13 

49:15 

forcefully 49:23 
form 20:11 
formulating 

39:10 

fortiori 25:23 
found 35:17 
frailty 6:23 
fraud 6:12,15,21 

7:2,6 27:14 
39:8,21 40:9 
41:6,7

front 17:3 
full 20:10 21:17 

29:16 33:20 
34:4 38:14 

full-time 11:20 
fundamental 

38:1 

grand 29:18 
grant 36:25 

20:15 
give 20:10 22:12  granted 41:10 
22:16,16 23:19  great 47:19 
30:3 31:22 
greater 8:1 
38:14 43:17 
grounded 7:11 

given 18:15 

37:10 45:3,4 
46:4 

gives 28:17,21 
giving 38:6 
go 3:21 4:7 19:2 
19:2 25:23,24 
26:15 36:6 
38:12 42:2 
45:7 

goes 26:2 
going 4:6 14:6 

grounds 23:17 

26:1 

35:5 

grows 21:24 
guess 5:21,25 

13:22 

guilty 5:17 
24:18 43:8 
46:6,7 

guy 45:10 
H

Honor's 6:25 

18:13 

hope 41:12 
horns 13:11 
hung 3:13,15 
9:5,6,8,11,15 
9:23 10:9,13 
10:17,19 11:11 
12:17,18 14:10 
14:15,16,18,21 
15:15,20,22 
16:22 17:11,16 
18:2,11,24 
21:12,15,18 
22:25 25:4,4 
25:17,21 26:5 
26:23 28:22,25 
29:19 32:24 
35:7,12 37:1 
37:24 38:17 
40:12 42:7,16 
43:12,25 44:3 
46:14 47:24 
48:4,18 

27:5 

identically 

24:16 

identification 

5:7 

identified 29:15 
illogical 14:9 
imagine 27:19 
imagining 26:7 
impermissible 

26:18 

implies 47:11 
important 17:15 
17:24 38:9,17 
42:1 43:7 49:8 

importantly 

5:10 

imported 33:9 
impossible 14:1 
improve 26:17 
impugning 44:8 
inability 10:23 
12:25 34:24 

inaccurate 

39:18 

inclined 40:10 
include 34:5 
included 40:24 

40:25 

inconsistency 
22:24 36:2 
inconsistent 

3:12,15 9:24 
10:23 11:3 
24:2 25:3 
35:15,25 45:6 
inconsistently 

35:21 

incorrect 42:10 
incorrectly 

41:20 

increase 28:24 
independent 

indict 28:14 

22:24 

36:14 

indicted 15:14 

26:10 37:6,10 
37:15 

indictment 7:5 

7:12 13:19 
23:11,12 28:6 
28:19,25 30:7 
30:12,24 49:22 
50:5 

indictments 
28:20 29:25 

individual 27:19 
individuals 

26:10 

information 

31:6 39:2,2,4
39:19 46:2,11
50:2,7,17

innocent 24:19 

44:20 

inquire 12:7 
inside 31:5 46:2 

46:11 

insider 4:1 7:10 

24:5,11,14
30:23 31:4,11
39:1,2,4,20
45:21 50:2,7,8 

insofar 6:16 

33:9 

instructed 46:3 
instruction 4:5,7

4:16,21 5:24 
6:3,23

instructions 4:3 
6:20 7:12 40:5 
45:3,4 46:4 
49:20 

integrally 31:7 

39:10 

integrated 7:6 
integrity 24:20 
24:22 27:1,9
27:11,16 33:16 
44:9 

interest 29:14 
29:16 38:5,6
38:10,16 42:22 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

fundamentally 

30:11 

further 10:20 

18:3 21:2 

G 

G 3:1 
game 26:10 43:4 
General 1:17 
49:5 50:12 

getting 28:22,24 

30:1 

Ginsburg 7:18 

7:25 8:7,14 9:8 
30:21 31:4 
38:25 39:6 
Ginsburg's 

19:2 32:9 

9:16 12:18 
27:24 28:5,8 
28:17,21,23,25  history 12:24 
29:9,16,20,22 
30:14,16,22 
31:16 33:1,20 
34:18 35:9,13 
36:4,5 37:9,12 
37:14,17 38:2 
41:16 42:12,14 
43:9,14 46:20 
48:21 

Honor 5:3 6:5 
6:19 7:5 8:12 
8:16,20 9:10 
11:12 12:3,11 
13:9 14:2,12 
14:17,25 15:5 
15:23 16:10,16 
17:21 18:8 
19:1,12 20:6 
29:15 

government's 
6:10,11 34:4 
37:23 38:16 
39:7 46:13 
50:13 

handle 30:1 
hangs 13:6 

15:8 16:25 
17:2 18:22 
22:10 28:8 
32:13,13 33:17 
hurts 10:16 
36:20,24 42:2 
hypo 28:13 
good 44:19 46:2  happened 14:13  hypothetical 
gored 13:15,17 
15:6 20:21 
government 
29:2 34:19 
35:7 37:4 

19:22 27:12 
34:5 42:17,17 
43:13 

3:12 5:11 6:8 
6:16 21:11,14 
21:16,19,21 
25:14 26:5,10 
26:12,14,19 

14:14 15:1 
27:25 49:14 
hear 3:3 13:22 
heat 12:20 
held 5:22 
hesitating 46:12 
historically 9:13 

I

idea 21:25 35:19 
identical 24:11 

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

interpreted 5:4 
interrupt 21:19 
intervene 42:19 
intrinsic 38:22 
involved 26:9 
31:7 37:23 
39:10 41:23 
43:6 

involvement 

involving 22:3 

40:2 

37:23 

irrational 28:22 
29:5 35:3 36:1 
38:10 45:7,12 
45:16,22 47:9


irrationality 

23:21 

irrationally 

45:19 

irrelevant 31:10 
issue 3:10,13,20 
3:20 5:8 8:5,8 
8:10,15,18,25

9:4 12:7 16:19 
16:20 17:8,15 
18:21 19:21 
20:14,19,24,25

28:25 29:4,6,7 
32:7 36:9 
38:22 39:24 
40:14,24 41:14

41:14,18 44:16 
44:24 46:18,19 
46:24 49:10,16 

issued 12:1 
issues 20:16 

28:23 

J 

J 1:15 2:3,8 3:6 

49:3 

January 28:1 

36:13 37:7,10 

knows 45:24 

knowledge 4:1 
5:22 31:9 37:3 

28:15 31:6 
34:23 39:16 
44:23,23 

language 37:11 
Laughter 47:7 
laundering

30:25 31:12

law 9:17 12:22 
14:1 17:5,25
19:10 20:4,4
35:12 45:2

L

11:18 

13:3,10,21 
14:4,8,14,18 
15:1,8,18,24 
16:11,24 18:1 
18:17,19 19:8 
19:16,19 20:15  known 8:18 
21:4,8 22:1,8 
22:20 23:6,9 
23:10,14,25 
24:7,17,25 
25:1,16,19 
26:1,3,25 27:4 
27:7,10,15,23 
28:3,10,13 
29:1,12,21 
30:4,8,21 31:3 
31:23 32:2,12 
32:16,23 33:4

33:19,25 34:7 
34:14,16,25 
35:24 36:10,11 
36:22 37:19,22 
38:4,21,25 
39:6 40:17,23 
41:8 42:6,15 
42:21,24,25

43:9,16 44:3,7 
44:17,22 45:5 
45:15,22 46:16 
47:4,23 48:9

48:10 49:1 
50:19 

38:23

leniency 23:17 
lenient 36:17 
lenity 36:3 
let's 5:23 37:12 

lay 12:17 
lead 21:11 30:12 
led 24:5 
legal 31:19 
41:14 45:9 

liable 39:20,21 
light 4:13 12:24 
liked 36:17 
likelihood 28:24 
line 18:9,12,14
18:22 20:18
21:23

Linen 9:15
lines 17:4 18:21 

18:23 21:10

litigation 33:17 
loads 28:24
logic 48:11
logical 16:11,25

17:1 

logically 13:25
30:20 35:16 
46:1,11,15

long 17:23 18:2 

justifications 

35:22


K 
keep 33:10 

37:13 43:25 

ken 31:1 
Kennedy 10:14
10:18 42:6,15 
42:22 43:9,16 
key 29:1 33:19 
kind 20:9 
know 11:13 12:4 

12:11 13:4 
18:1 19:17 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

interests 42:23 

43:24 

43:7 

37:15 39:9 
40:3 

jeopardy 8:2,8 

10:15,25 11:8 
11:13,15,17,22 
11:25 12:3,4 
12:23 13:6,24 
14:10,18,22 
15:15,20,22 
17:11,16 18:10 
18:14,25 19:5 
19:9,22,24 
20:10,20 21:15 
21:18,25 22:9 
22:15,17,18 
24:4 26:21 
27:12 28:22,25 
29:18 30:1 
31:2,10,15,21 
31:22 34:5,21 
35:7,12,17,18 
35:20,20 36:7 
36:16 37:1 
38:2,10,12,15 
38:17,18,23 
39:14 40:2,5,6 
40:14 41:22 
42:5,17,17 
43:12,13,25 
44:3,13,14,16 
44:18 45:3,8 
45:12,15 46:3 
46:7,22 47:4,8 
47:11,13,17,24 
47:25 48:5,5 
48:13,15,19 
49:15,18,20 
50:14 

jury's 3:10 9:5 

9:24 10:23 
20:12 22:11 
26:13 31:1 
35:14 44:9 
45:13 48:17 

8:23 10:1 
12:10 17:25 
19:3,4 21:10 
21:15,20 23:4 
24:23 25:10 
26:1,4 28:4 
29:7,13 31:20 
32:8,10,14,20 
32:24 33:1,3,5 
33:8,10 35:12 
36:15 37:3,11 
37:22,25 41:18 
42:25 43:5,20 
49:7,9,13 

joinder 13:13,17 
joined 13:12 
joining 28:17 
Joint 4:8 
judge 4:9 36:15 
36:15 47:16,18 

judges 43:18 

judgment 9:1,2 

judicata 13:13 

46:19 

41:1 

13:20 

July 36:14 
June 27:20 29:4 

37:16 

juries 18:2 
44:12 48:3 
jurisdictions 

20:8 

jurisprudence 

19:3 43:1 
jurists 4:9 
jurors 11:19,21 

12:20 48:6 

jury 3:13 4:3,4,7  Justice 1:18 3:3 

4:15 5:12,16 
5:24,25 6:3,8 
6:14,24 7:15 
7:16 9:14,17 
9:23 10:8,8,9 

3:8,19 5:19 
6:10 7:1,18,25
8:7,14 9:8,18 
10:3,14,15,18
11:4 12:5,7 

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

minutes 12:2 

13:7 

look 18:1 25:8 

49:2 

non-hypertec... 

misleading 4:14 

49:11 

17:16 

opinions 10:12 

10:12 42:9 

Perez 18:9 20:17 
perils 19:6 
permissible 

looked 4:3 5:5  misrepresenta...  non-jeopardy-...  opponent 46:21 

15:13 

7:7 

23:13 

opportunity 

43:11 

48:16 

12:18 

misspoke 37:20  note 12:1 
misstatements 

number 7:21,21 

4:12 6:13 
16:18,19 48:17 
48:21 

necessity 18:10 
needed 31:16 
needs 32:3 48:13 
nefarious 30:14 

30:15 

neither 47:22 
neutral 37:13 
never 5:22 12:4 
once 48:23 
16:5,7 25:20 
43:1,5,21 46:2  open 17:19 

6:18 

33:8 

meaningless 

10:17,19 
means 8:14 
12:19 22:6 
47:19 

meeting 4:18 
39:9 41:24 

message 39:10 
metaphysical 

49:6 

MICHAEL 1:17 

2:5 21:6 
mind 27:18 

33:10 

new 3:18 30:24 
non 13:7 45:8 
non-acquitted 

opening 5:10 6:7  Particulars 50:6 
open-ended 6:4  party 33:13 
open-endedness  people 4:22 40:5 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

looking 5:8 
looks 36:18 
lose 36:24 
lost 37:5 
lot 28:17 
lots 28:13,18 

M 

majority 10:11 
making 16:12 
16:14 30:8 
40:3 

man 6:9 
manager 31:8 
manifest 18:9 
manner 47:9 
March 1:9 
marketplace 

5:15 6:22 
39:11,23 

mistrial 20:1 

24:2 

mixed 22:6 
40:11 42:3 

model 17:6,8,10 

17:10,14,17 
18:24,25 

models 17:4 
Monday 1:9 
money 31:12 
motions 50:4 

N

39:12,23 

4:22 6:18 7:8 

Martin 9:15 
material 4:11,12 

N 2:1,1 3:1 
necessarily 4:2 
5:25 7:22 8:6 
8:15,15 16:23 
20:24 24:4 
33:16 40:14 
41:19 42:5 
45:20 49:16 
mean 15:3 26:13  necessary 3:18 
meaning 10:6,7 

matter 1:11 34:2 
41:20 43:20,22 
50:22 

11:14 24:13 
29:24,25 30:6 
30:12,18 31:9 
43:23 
O
O 2:1 3:1 
obligation 4:19
obtain 21:15,21

33:2

obvious 13:21
obviously 22:10

31:15 46:19
47:25 

occur 16:20,21 
19:21 21:12 
29:19 49:14 

occurred 49:19 
offended 8:5 
offense 22:22 

32:19,24 

offenses 32:20 
Oh 15:24 34:16 
okay 14:4,8,18 
27:23 36:23 
47:16 

omission 5:13 

6:12 

omissions 5:12 
5:15,17 6:17 
6:22,24 7:3,8 
7:11 40:1,8 
41:7 50:11,14 
omitted 4:11,22 

21:17,21 26:16 
29:17,20 33:2 
33:21,22 34:4 
35:13 36:4,6 
43:7 44:14,15 
46:14 

opposite 9:11 

13:11 

permit 12:22 

19:10,15 

permitted 6:20 
14:1,10 42:8 
person 32:23 
persuasion 13:1 
Petitioner 1:4 
1:16 2:4,9 3:7 
24:1 30:5 31:5 
49:4 

option 9:17 
oral 1:11 2:2 3:6  Petitioner's 

21:6 

order 4:12 6:11 

24:10 31:18 
39:25 

ought 17:18 

32:4 48:12 
49:11 

phase 46:4 
pick 18:22,24
pieces 28:9 
place 23:11 
outside 18:20,23  planned 7:7 
overcharged 

24:24 

30:14 

overcharging 

30:17,19 

overlapping 
28:13,16,18 
overturning 

12:15 

ox 13:15,17 

P

P 3:1 
page 2:2 4:8 
parse 4:4 
part 7:4 10:1 

25:10 

partial 19:11,15 
19:23 20:5,21 
47:13,15,16 

participate 41:4 
participated 

40:6,21 

planning 40:21 
please 3:9 21:9 
point 4:6 5:20 
10:15,19 11:5 
11:6,7 12:3,5 
16:11 20:15 
31:24 32:21 
42:10,18 45:25 

poker 26:10 
policies 25:9 

26:2 32:6 38:1 
38:1 49:12 
policy 29:6,8 
30:16 35:22 
portion 9:23,25
position 17:1 
30:5 31:18 
34:8,13 46:15 

possess 3:25 

50:1,17

possessing 50:8 
possibilities
17:19 18:6 
possible 5:1 

11:15 12:23 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

21:19 

prevails 48:7 
prevent 6:14 

proves 4:23 
proxy 30:18 
public 49:12 
preventing 28:4  purpose 7:8,8 
previously 8:18  purposes 10:1 
price 7:9 
17:24 20:14 
principle 21:13 
23:4 24:12 

rationally 7:17 

redeterminati... 

21:25 36:7 
48:15 

9:4 

referred 42:24 

reach 6:20 10:23  refine 26:17 
regard 30:18 
regarded 26:18 

24:8 46:21 
posture 26:8 
Powell 13:3,15 

14:3 21:24 
22:2,2,4 25:3 
powerful 9:13 
practices 19:14 
precedent 12:25 
precise 41:17 
precisely 9:11 
preclude 33:17 

40:15 

preclusion 8:9 
8:10,11,17,18 
17:8,12,14 
19:21 20:14,15 
20:17,19,19,25 
29:4,6,7 32:7 
36:9 38:23 
49:10 

21:16 

probable 29:19 
probably 27:2 
problem 28:11 

28:12 

Procedure 

47:13 

proceeding 5:7 
6:16 22:9 26:6 
34:9,10 

proceeds 31:13 
prohibits 31:21 
proper 10:21 
properly 23:3 

preclusive 9:4 
predicate 33:12  proposition 
predominating 
35:14 41:9 
48:3 

18:5 

prefer 26:4 
preferred 29:18  prosecuting 
preliminary 

propounds 24:1 

38:16 

3:20 

premise 48:25 
premised 21:25 
preparation 

40:21 

prosecution 

7:19 8:21,22 
11:7 23:1,3,7 
28:8 30:16 
40:16 45:14 
50:13 

preparing 40:3 
presence 15:3,5  prosecutions 8:1 

16:4 

presented 10:7 
34:22 40:24 
presided 46:25 
press 39:17 41:5 
presume 45:2 
presumption 

presupposing 

45:6 

35:7 

pretty 22:2 

32:17 

prevail 42:16 

13:4 22:3 
26:21 27:8 
29:10 

prosecutors 

43:22 

protean 5:24 
protect 22:11 

49:12 

protected 32:19 
protecting 38:9 
protections 49:9 
prove 31:16 

48:21 

11:2,13,16 
13:1 17:17 
20:10 24:9 
34:24 41:13 
44:24,24 46:8 
49:21 

reached 12:21 
19:24 49:25 
reaching 18:10 

39:15 

reaction 20:8 
read 43:2 47:1 
real 28:11 
really 31:9 
44:19 48:5 
reason 3:21 

37:25 

rejected 22:5 
39:14 40:8 
related 39:8 
relates 10:4 
relating 7:21 
relation 39:2 
releases 39:18 
relevant 45:17 
relied 40:20 
relitigate 49:15 
rely 32:16 33:14 
relying 12:10 

35:6 

remainder 21:3 
11:15 23:21 
24:19 25:14,15  remaining 49:2 
25:16,25 26:25  remedy 19:25 
removed 11:22 
27:8 35:4 
repeat 15:10 
37:14,21 44:2 
reply 11:17 
45:12 46:12 
reprosecution
47:9,10 48:4 
49:10 

22:22 

reasonable 

49:18 

reasonably 

29:25 

reasoned 42:11 
reasons 5:3 

11:14 23:20 
28:2 35:10 
42:12 45:9 
rebuttal 2:7 
21:3 41:21 
49:3 

recognized 9:13 

9:15 10:13 
13:15 17:24 
18:3 

record 5:4,9 6:6 
10:5,6 11:1,14 
48:16,24 

require 18:14 
19:10,20,21
20:4 41:13 

required 19:23 
requires 32:10
res 13:13,19
reserve 21:3
resolution 25:17

28:22

resolve 20:22

32:4 41:10,11
41:12

resolved 9:6
16:22 24:15
31:11,13 40:14 
41:19 48:15,20
48:22

resolves 3:10

15:22,25 16:2 

put 14:20 
Q

qualify 38:25
quest 12:22
question 4:1,19

6:1,25 7:16 
8:20 12:14
13:21 14:5
17:13 18:4,13
19:18 20:19
21:1 24:23
25:1 26:2 27:9 
27:11 33:8
37:7 39:15,19
40:24 41:18
42:15,25 48:9 

questionable

35:1

questioning

24:21

questions 21:2
quite 7:18,23
11:15 41:2
47:2 49:13

R

R 1:17 2:5 3:1 

21:6

raise 3:19 8:1 
raised 8:3 12:8 

17:9 28:11
raising 18:3
rational 35:20

38:23 48:13,20
49:19

rationale 17:22
rationality

35:21 48:25
49:11

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

41:14 

respect 35:8 

39:3 

responded 

42:24 

Respondent 

27:12 35:18 
robbers 7:23 

34:22 35:8,11 
35:15 

robbery 7:20 
26:9,11,20 

6:15,21 7:2 
27:14 39:8,21 
40:9 41:6 

see 16:9,9 25:9 

37:9 

simultaneously 

21:12 

single 25:12 
sir 15:17 
situation 7:24 
26:23,24 35:2 
48:12 

six 7:20 9:2 26:9 

26:20 34:22 
49:2,24 50:15 

seek 3:12 20:12 
seeking 50:5 
seeks 31:18 
sell 7:10 13:24 
selling 13:23 
sense 8:21 10:14  slightly 26:8 
snippet 6:6 
society 43:25 
society's 43:6 
Solicitor 1:17 
49:5 50:12 

10:17 23:8,10 
43:22 45:20 
47:22 48:1 

sent 11:25 
separate 21:10 
26:11 33:25 
35:9 

sort 48:18 
sound 30:16 

3:4 43:17,17 
43:20 

statutes 28:14 
Stevens 23:6,9 
23:10,14,25 
24:7,17 25:1 
26:25 27:4,7 
27:10 33:19,25 
34:7,14,16,25 
35:24 36:11 
44:3,7,18,22 
45:5,15,22 
46:16 47:4 
stock 7:9,11 
stop 16:6,8 
straightforward 

3:16 

29:11,12 

response 3:22 

1:19 2:6 21:7  ROBERTS 3:3 
13:3 21:4 22:1 
22:8 31:23 
32:12,16,23 
33:4 38:4 
40:17,23 41:8 
47:23 48:10 
49:1 50:19 

rest 41:3 
result 20:4,7 
29:10 40:10 
42:13 47:21 
results 29:10 
retrial 14:22,23 
17:12 18:6,11 
20:1 42:7 44:1  Rules 47:12 
47:22 

rule 3:18 43:16 

44:2 

retried 42:16 
retry 8:5 14:10 
14:19 15:3,16 
15:21,25 16:1 
16:2,3 21:12 
26:5 34:5,8 
35:10,13 37:24 
38:3 43:14 
46:14 48:4 
retrying 15:2 

16:6,8 

return 20:5 

34:19 35:18 
47:13 

returned 26:21 

34:23 45:23 
returning 48:3 
revisit 32:1,3 

41:15 

Revisiting 40:23 
re-litigation 

20:25 

right 13:24 14:1 
14:11,19 18:18 
27:21 30:8 
34:5,8 38:3,5 
38:19 48:7 

rigor 42:4 
robber 26:14,22 

S
S 2:1 3:1 
SAMUEL 1:15
2:3,8 3:6 49:3 

sat 49:17
Sattazahn 10:12
saying 12:1
15:11 29:8
43:2 44:13
45:9

says 15:7 18:23 

23:18 32:19
35:2

Scalia 9:18 10:3 

11:4 12:5

Scalia's 10:15
scheme 40:7
SCOTT 1:3
screen 6:9
Sealfon 49:8
second 3:13 5:7 

13:25 17:10
19:5 21:23
25:14 29:3
30:22 42:17
44:4,13 49:15 
50:5

seconds 6:2
securities 6:12

strange 34:21 
separated 13:20  Souter 3:19 5:19  strategic 31:7 
sequential 27:8 
sequentially 
26:15 28:8 
seriatim 7:19 

12:8 16:24 
18:1,17,19 
26:3 28:10 
29:13,21 30:4 
30:8 

stress 11:19 
strikes 34:20 
striking 16:13 
strive 46:5 
struggling 47:14 
subject 9:3 

8:1,20,22 
29:10 

series 28:20 
set 4:8 5:21 9:16 

11:17 20:17 
settled 35:12 
Seventh 38:8,18 
severe 11:18 
shape 13:6 
sharp 18:13 
show 48:19 
showing 29:18 

40:14 

shows 11:4,4 
side 13:14 16:12 

36:10 

Similarly 5:8 
simply 4:17 9:24 

11:12 17:13 
23:12 28:20 
31:2 48:19 
49:13,22 

simultaneous 

23:16,20 

Souter's 42:25 
speak 4:25 10:9 

12:14,14,15
10:13,25 12:23  submit 40:12 
submits 50:12 
submitted 50:20 

speaking 10:11 
speaks 9:14 
20:21,23 

50:22 

specificity 50:4 
split 20:9 
spoke 49:23,23 
stand 5:14 22:21 

41:21 

stands 18:12,13 
Start 36:10 
state 4:11 19:10 

19:16 20:4 

statement 4:11 

6:7 39:1 

statements 4:13 

4:18,20,21 
39:16,22 40:3 
40:7,8,22 41:5 
41:24 50:9 

States 1:1,6,12 

subsequent 13:4 

22:3 

subsequently

39:18 

substantive 

14:21 15:12 
16:4 36:12 
39:4,8,21

successive 19:6 
19:7 23:1,3,7

suffice 6:3 
suggest 18:20 
suggested 29:2 

43:21 

suggesting

36:11 

suggestion 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

39:25 

suggests 28:13 
supported 32:8 

27:18 

text 32:10,14 

33:5 

tolerate 35:3,4 
tolerated 12:19 
total 10:2,5 

32:9 

textually 31:21 

48:24 

supports 35:22  Thank 21:4 49:1  totally 30:1,2 
suppose 25:20 
26:19 42:16 

50:18,19 

47:3 

transposed 32:5  undermines 
treat 48:17 
trial 6:6 11:19 

undermining 

22:20 

43:22 

unanimity 10:9 
12:23 20:12,13 
unanimous 11:6 

11:9 12:13 
unanimously 

10:25 

uncertainty 
7:13 17:16 
underlie 25:9 

49:12 

underlying 19:4 
undermine 

38:16 

22:13,17 38:13 
38:15 

underpinning 

19:13 

17:17 18:10 
19:11,23,25 
20:5,9,10,12 
20:21 21:12,15 
21:22 22:6 
23:16 24:1,19 
26:21 29:5 
33:2 34:24 
35:3,18 38:7 
38:14,15 40:11 
43:23 44:9 
45:6,23 46:5,6 
46:8 47:15,16 
48:14 

verdicts 3:14,24 
4:1 14:6 19:5,9 
19:15 22:10 
25:3 35:25 
38:10,12,18
42:3 47:13 
48:3,18

17:2 20:8 
understood 

understand 17:1  versus 48:14 
victim 7:20,21
victims 7:20 
view 19:21 
40:20 48:2 
49:6,11

United 1:1,6,12 

26:13 

3:4 

units 30:20 
unsound 45:9 
untrue 4:11 
unusual 11:25 

13:5 

upsetting 22:6 

V

v 1:5 3:4,17,22 

23:4 26:8,9 
31:25 32:3,5 
34:20,21 

validity 23:22 
value 39:13 
values 8:2,3 

18:4,6 29:14 
various 28:19 
verdict 4:16,23 

4:24 9:24 
11:13,16 12:21 

viewed 23:3 
viewing 47:24 
vindicated 

42:23 

vivid 26:7 
W
wait 29:3
want 15:9 33:15 
wanted 11:19

16:15

Washington 1:8

1:15,18

wasn't 7:3 31:8 

35:17 46:22

way 9:13 11:1,9 

11:11 12:18
16:14 22:10,11
22:11 24:2
25:8 26:17

Supreme 1:1,12 
sure 6:14 47:6 
surprising 16:13 
Swenson 3:17 

3:23 23:4 26:8 
26:9 31:25 
32:3,5 34:20 
34:21 48:14 
sword 13:10 
system 31:6 

T 

T 2:1,1 
take 9:19 15:9 

39:24 42:8 
45:15 47:16 
48:23 49:6 
takes 45:12 
talk 32:13,13 
talking 8:10 
36:25 44:12 

talks 37:2 
teachings 49:7 
technological 

39:13 

telephone 13:24 
14:10,19,21,23 
14:24 15:12,14 
27:21,25 36:14 
37:7,16 

telephones 

28:15 

tell 41:22 
telling 4:9 
tells 17:18 18:9 
20:18 48:14 

tend 30:15 43:24 
terminated 8:24 
terms 9:1 
test 5:3 10:4 

tough 27:3 
track 42:2 
traded 31:9 
trader 50:8 
trading 7:10 
24:6,11,14 
30:23 31:4,11 
39:20 45:21 

theory 5:12,13 
6:17,25 7:3,6 
7:11 23:25 
24:10 39:7,25 
40:1 42:7,7 
47:11,18,23 
50:11,14 

thing 4:23,24 
23:2 31:1,17 
things 36:7,8 
think 6:23 9:10 

19:1 20:7 
22:19 23:2,9 
23:24 24:12 
25:11,11,13,22 
26:2,7,23 
27:15 30:11,13 
30:17 31:3,10 
31:17,25 32:3 
32:4,18 33:7 
33:23 34:20 
36:11 37:11,21 
38:4,8,17,20 
38:21 39:24 
40:25 41:15,20 
41:21 42:1,12 
42:21,22 43:21 
45:11 46:23,24 

14:13 18:3 
36:12 43:2,4 
44:8 46:25 
49:18 50:3 
trials 19:6,7 

43:23 

tried 26:12 

27:17 28:20 
49:21 

trimmed 30:23 

30:25 

true 36:8 44:10 
try 14:6 20:9 
21:15 25:4 
26:15,16 27:19 
33:21 43:10 

trying 25:5 28:9 

thought 16:12 

43:25 

27:16 

thousands 36:25 
threat 8:2 
three 6:21 
tighten 6:3 
time 21:3 24:7 
27:18 33:22 
36:17 37:8 
42:17 44:5 

turn 31:4 37:5 
turned 24:14 
two 5:3 17:4,4 
17:19 21:10 
22:9 28:2 30:4 
30:6 35:9 37:8 
38:12 44:12 
50:3 

two-edged 13:10 

today 3:4 
token 18:2 
told 10:15 

U

unable 35:18 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

31:11,14 32:8 
38:12,19 40:1 
41:17 42:4,12 
48:5 

ways 6:20 
wear 26:16 
went 41:17 
we'll 45:7,9 

47:16 

10:06 1:13 3:2 
105 4:8 
11:04 50:21 
117 29:23 
13-and-a-half-... 

49:18 
150 24:8 
176 11:16 
176-count 49:21 

we're 8:10 24:21  1824 34:3 
2

37:4 47:14 

we've 5:22 17:3 

17:12 19:24 

whit 27:24 
white 43:1 
win 17:2 36:20 
winning 37:6 
wire 41:6 
words 8:9 
working 31:8 
worse 37:12,15 

wouldn't 25:12 

37:18 

25:21 

X 

x 1:2,7 

Y 

2 13:23 14:4,9,9 

14:18,21,22 
15:2,12,14,21 
16:1,2,6,6,8

20 30:23 
20th 39:9 40:3 
2000 5:14 39:9 

50:9

2009 1:9 
21 2:6
23 1:9 

3 

3 2:4 14:20 
15:19 16:3

4

Yeager 1:3 3:4 

49 2:9

5
5 30:23,24
6

5:11,13 6:8 7:7 
39:9,16 40:1 
40:20 41:4,21 
44:19 46:1,6 
47:2 50:1,7,16  60 6:2
50:17 
Yeager's 7:4 
7 
46:15 47:11,18  70 12:2 
year 43:10,10 
8

8 30:25
80 6:2 

0 
08-67 1:5 
1 

1 13:23,23 14:9 
14:20 15:3,6,7

15:11,11,19

16:20 

9 
99 30:24

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

