Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
          
IGNACIO CARLOS FLORES-
: 
                       
:
FIGUEROA, 
 Petitioner 
          
:
                       
:  No. 08-108 
                  
UNITED STATES. 
: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Wednesday, February 25, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 11:12 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ., Bethesda, Md.; on behalf of

 the Petitioner. 

TOBY J. HEYTENS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor

 General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
 behalf of the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


TOBY J. HEYTENS, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

27


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

52


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (11:12 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument next in Case 08-108, Flores-Figueroa versus 
United States.

 Mr. Russell.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. RUSSELL:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 In common usage to say that somebody 

knowingly transfers, possesses or uses something is to 
say that that person knows what it is that he is 
transferring, possessing or using.  If I say that John 
knowingly used a pair of scissors of his mother, I am 
saying not simply that John knew he was using something 
that turned out to be his mother's scissors or even that 
John knew he was using scissors which turned out to be 
his mother's, I am saying that John knew that the 
scissors he was using belonged out to be his mother.

 The same principle follows under the Federal 

aggravated identity theft statute, which calls for a 
two-year mandatory sentence for anyone who during and in 
relations certain predicate --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Doesn't that depend on the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

context?  You can think of examples where you have 
exactly the same usage and the person wouldn't 
necessarily know about the ownership of the thing in 
question?

 MR. RUSSELL:  I haven't been able to think 
of one.  And the government hasn't been able to come up 
with one.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How about so and so 
stole a car that belonged to Mr. Jones.  I suppose you 
could say that the person knew it was Mr. Jones' car, 
but more likely somebody stole the car that turned out 
to be Mr. Jones's.

 MR. RUSSELL:  I think that that formulation 

gives rise to a little bit more ambiguity in that 
context.  I think if you said stole the car of Mr. 
Jones, it is not particularly ambiguous.  But at the 
very least, this is a formulation that claim.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You think he knowingly 

stole the car that belonged to Mr. Jones, would that be 
the parallel?

 MR. RUSSELL:  Yes, I'm sorry if I left that 

part out.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You left out the 

"knowingly."  Once you put in "knowingly" --

MR. RUSSELL:  I think if the statement is, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

you know, John knowingly stole the car of Mr. Jones, 
that strongly implies that John knew that the car 
belonged to Mr. Jones.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  I repeat, doesn't that 

depend on the context that you say somebody says to you, 
you know, a car was stolen from our street last night. 
Oh, what car was stolen?  Oh, it was the car of Mr. 
Jones.  He knowingly stole the car of Mr. Jones.  It 
doesn't necessarily mean that the person who stole the 
car knew that it was Mr. Jones's car.

 MR. RUSSELL:  I do think that the 

formulation that John knowingly stole the car of Mr. 
Jones most naturally is understood to imply that John 
knew whose car it was he was stealing.

 We don't claim that the government has an 

interpretation that's grammatically impossible.  We are 
just simply saying that by far the most common usage of 
this kind of formulation, particularly in a criminal 
statute, is that the knowledge element applies to the --
JUSTICE ALITO:  Who did the mugger mug?  He 
mugged the man from Denver.  You think that he knowingly 
mugged the man from Denver.  Do you think that means 
that the mugger knew that the man was from Denver?
 MR. RUSSELL:  I think that is a more 

ambiguous statement. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE ALITO:  Why is it more ambiguous?
 MR. RUSSELL:  Because I think the "from" 

preposition --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Why isn't it less 

unambiguous.  I thought your argument was that this was 
unambiguous.

 MR. RUSSELL:  I think the possessive form 
makes it, through common usage, unambiguous.  We don't 
claim that it is grammatically impossible.  But we do 
think that in ordinary usage people would understand --

JUSTICE BREYER:  So what if it isn't?  I 

mean, suppose you had a statute, and the statute says it 
is a crime to mug a man from Denver.  That's a Denver 
ordinance, by the way, because no one else would pass 
it.  I mean, but if those were the elements of the 
crime, I guess, we do normally apply knowingly to each 
of them.

 MR. RUSSELL:  That is correct in the 

criminal --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Whether -- even if it isn't 

ordinary usage.

 MR. RUSSELL:  That's right.  We have more 

than one argument.  We think that as a matter of 
ordinary usage --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I was thoughtfully trying 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to push you on to the next argument.

 MR. RUSSELL:  Well, we do think that in a 
criminal statute you ordinarily assume, this Court has 
said that a conventional Mens Rea element extends to all 
of the elements of the offense.

 And Congress knows how to deviate from that 

when it wants to.  It did so, for example, in the 
statute that the Court construed in the X-Citement Video 
case, where it referred to a person knowingly 
transporting a visual depiction, comma, if that visual 
depiction has certain characteristics.  And this Court 
recognized that that kind of formulation most naturally 
is read to end the knowledge requirement as the comma, 
if.

 Congress didn't do that here.  In fact, 

there is no textual indication that would lead one to 
believe that it didn't intend anything other than a 
completely conventional Mens Rea requirement in this 
case.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Russell, am I correct 

in understanding that the government goes with you 
almost all the way, and its only the last three words 
"of another person," that they agree knowingly applies 
to "without lawful authority," and that it applies to a 
means of identification?  You have to know that it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was -- you were using the means of identification.

 MR. RUSSELL:  As I understand that is not 
their position.  That's the back-up to their back-up 
position.  The first position is that it only applies to 
the verbs.  Then they say, well, if you don't accept 
that then, maybe it goes through "without lawful 
authority."  And if you don't accept that, then maybe it 
goes halfway through the phrase "means of identification 
of another person.

 So, they do raise all three alternatives. 

That last argument, I think, fails both for text common 
usage reasons and in light of this tradition element 
that we have been discussing.  Textually, there is 
something no textual cue that the knowledge requirement 
stops halfway through the direct object phrase, "means 
of identification of another person."

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  If the first -- this 

alien's first effort to get papers that would qualify 
for him, if I -- if I remember correctly, the first time 
around he used an assumed name, not his own name.

 MR. RUSSELL:  That's right.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  He used a false date of 
birth.  He got a Social Security card that happened to 
belong -- to be the number of no live person --

MR. RUSSELL:  Correct. 

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- and -- and that would 

not have violated.  Even in the government's reading 
that would not have violated --

MR. RUSSELL:  That's right.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- this statute.
 But the second time around, your case, he 
did use his own name.  And the question was -- and it 
turned out that both the Social Security card and the 
alien registration, they were two different people but 
they were both live.

 MR. RUSSELL:  Correct.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So that does make it a 

crime.  But when the number turned out to be that 
belonged to anybody that does not, you don't get the 
two-year add-on.

 MR. RUSSELL:  Just to be clear, the only 

reason the government alleges that there is a crime here 
is because it turned out that those numbers had been 
assigned to somebody else.  Under our view, that's not 
enough.  That's enough to show that he committed the 
predicate offenses, and received very substantial 
punishment for that, but it's not enough to show that he 
was qualified for an additional two years mandatory 
sentence as an aggravated identity thief.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Now, you can -- what would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

happen if the -- the defendant doesn't -- doesn't act 
knowingly as to the question whether the identifying 
information belongs to a real person but is simply 
reckless as to whether the identifying information 
belongs to a real person?  Suppose that someone buys an 
identification card and looks at it, and it looks like 
it might be a real identification card on which that 
persons picture has been inserted in place of the real 
picture, but the person can't be sure and it might 
really be an entirely fake card.  Would that be a 
violation?

 MR. RUSSELL:  Ordinarily recklessness does 
not satisfy a knowledge requirement.  Willful blindness 
ordinarily does.  But recklessness in itself ordinarily 
does not.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Would it be enough to go 
to the jury on the hypothetical Justice Alito gives you?

 MR. RUSSELL:  I think so.  I think the 

government is free to present circumstantial evidence.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You agree that you could 
go to the jury whenever there is an identity card that 
does reflect the identity of a real person but there is 
no other knowledge that the government's case is 
introduced that shows -- that there is no other evidence 
that the government has introduced showing knowledge? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. RUSSELL:  If there is -- I think that 

could be a component of circumstantial evidence case.  I 
don't think it would be enough.  Particularly in a case 
like this where --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Suppose he has five 

different cards with five different real people, would 
that be enough to go?

 MR. RUSSELL:  I don't think so in itself. 
Particularly in a case like this where the person gets 
up and testifies that they didn't know.  The fact that 
there is these numbers here --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No, no.  No. The fact that 

he testified, that doesn't have anything to do with 
whether or not the case goes to the jury.  Does the 
government make its case sufficient to resist the 
motion -- the directed motion for acquittal if it just 
puts in the fact that you have five identity cards and 
there are five different people and they are all real 
people?

 MR. RUSSELL:  No, I don't think so.  And in 

fact, the fact that they are five different people 
probably tends to undermine the evidence.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You are making it very hard 
for me to vote with you, I must say.  I thought you had 
a pretty good -- a pretty good case.  But if you are 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

going to say somebody who has five identity cards, faces 
of individuals, presumably they are real individuals --

MR. RUSSELL:  I'm sorry, maybe I am 

misunderstanding the hypothetical.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I thought that was the 
hypothetical.  Five different -- the person has five 
identity cards of real people, and -- and you don't know 
that he knows that its the identity cards of a real 
person, but he used it.

 MR. RUSSELL:  Okay.  If there -- if these 
are identity cards that have the picture of somebody 
other than him on them --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes.  Yes.
 MR. RUSSELL:  -- which is an unusual 

thing --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of course.
 MR. RUSSELL:  But if that's the case, then, 

yes, I think that -- you know, that there would be --
that that picture belongs to the person whose number is 
there, and that they could do that.  The ordinary --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No, no.  You have to have 

the further inference that he knows that.

 MR. RUSSELL:  I think a jury could 

reasonably infer that the person wouldn't -- would not, 
that if you have an ID card with somebody else's name, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

somebody else's number, somebody else's picture, that 
that belongs to somebody else.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  That's not -- that's not 

this case.  In this case he had his own name.  And I 
don't know whether there was a picture on the alien 
registration card.  I don't know -- he used his own 
name.  Did he use his own photograph?

 MR. RUSSELL:  I don't know the answer to 

that question.  I mean, Social Security cards don't have 
pictures.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  That was going to be my 

next question.  The next question is suppose it was the 
Petitioner's own name but somebody else's number.

 MR. RUSSELL:  I would tend to think that 

that's not sufficient.  Of course --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I mean, that would --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Even if he had five 

different cards, all with his name, but all with the 
identification numbers of other real people?

 MR. RUSSELL:  Again, I would -- I would 

think not.  I can understand that people could disagree 
with that.  And of course, the government is free to 
raise those kinds of arguments in other cases where this 
comes up.

 All of this goes the question of what does 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it take to show that somebody knows something.  The 
question before the Court right now, and the only 
question, is whether the government has to show that 
knowledge at all.  And in this case, you know, the 
government's principal argument, I think their strongest 
argument is that reducing the mens rea requirements in 
that way serves the purpose of facilitating prosecutions 
and therefore protection of the victim, and we don't 
deny that it had that effect.  And we don't deny that 
this statute is directed at protecting victims, but that 
could be said of an awful lot of criminal statutes.
 JUSTICE ALITO:  What if the defendant 

chooses a name -- uses a name other than his or her own 
name?  I guess has a identification card made up with 
that, and doesn't know for sure that the name that's 
chosen actually belongs to another person, but because 
it's not an extremely uncommon name, has -- knows that 
it's virtually certain that that name belongs to some 
other person who is unknown to him?  Is that a 
violation?

 MR. RUSSELL:  I think -- again, you have 

this issue of recklessness versus knowledge.  If he knew 
that in fact it belonged to it, if he used John Doe, it 
turns out there are several hundred John Doe's in this 
country, and it does raise a difficult question about 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

how this statute ought to apply when you are using 
something that is so commonly identifying somebody, but 
it's hard to say that its identifying anybody in 
particular.

 The definition of the means of 

identification in this statute says that it has to be a 
name or number that is capable of identifying a 
particular person, so I think you get into questions 
when you're talking about common names, about how the 
statute -- whether the statute would be satisfied.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, what if it's not an 
extremely common name, but not an extremely uncommon 
name?  And what if it's -- what if the defendant chooses 
Kevin K. Russell?  Would that be a violation?

 MR. RUSSELL:  You would have to show that he 

knew that that was a name belonging to a specific 
person.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  He would have to know that 

there is such a person.

 MR. RUSSELL:  He would have to know that 
there is such -- he wouldn't have to know me, but he 
would have to know that there is such a person.  But 
again --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Does he have to know that? 
Suppose he uses John Smith.  Does it suffice that -- do 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

we have to show that he knows there is a John Smith in 
the phone book, someplace in the United States?

 MR. RUSSELL:  I think so.  I think he would 
have to know who that John Smith was, but he would have 
to know there is a John Smith.  And that -- I mean, that 
kind of scenario does raise difficult questions about.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But I want an answer to 

the question.

 MR. RUSSELL:  Well, I think the answer is 
the one that I gave you, which I think is disputable, 
but it's -- the answer is that he has to know that there 
is a specific person named John Smith.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And it can't be submitted 
to the jury on the basis that anybody knows that there 
is a John Smith?

 MR. RUSSELL:  I think that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Can -- can it go to the 

jury without any other evidence other than the fact that 
-- his possession of the card?

 MR. RUSSELL:  If it's a sufficiently common 

name that he ought to know that there is somebody 
bearing that name, then yes, I would agree it would go 
to the jury on that.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  If the name said Anthony 

Kennedy, would that go to the jury? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

(Laughter.)
 MR. RUSSELL:  I -- again -- it's hard to 

draw lines here, but I think the ultimate question is, 
you know, could a reasonable jury think that somebody 
using that name has to know there is a specific person 
with that name, a specific person with that name?  And 
quite possibly they could.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Can you give me an 

example?

 MR. RUSSELL:  It go to the jury.  An awful 

lot of name examples would.

 I think simply in this case, though, when 

you are talking about a number, I don't think -- it's a 
much harder case to say that simply having a number on 
the card should -- should lead you to know that that 
name very likely belongs to somebody else.  In fact, 
there are nine -- there are -- there a billion possible 
combinations for security -- Social Security numbers, 
and only about 400 million have been issued.  But to get 
back -- I --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But if you say this goes 

to the jury, it doesn't leave very much to your 
knowledge argument.

 MR. RUSSELL:  Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I mean, I suppose that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

defense counsel can get up, say the government hasn't 
shown that he knew this, and then the government says 
that of course he knows it -- I don't think you have 
accomplished very much.

 MR. RUSSELL:  Well, it does.  I think the 

jury still has to make the finding that he knew it.  And 
in a case like this where my client testified that he 
didn't know it, where the government didn't contest 
that, didn't argue that there were substantial evidence 
showing that he did know it, it's going to be 
outcome-determinative.  In that --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How do these operations 
work?  He went to Chicago to buy false identification 
papers.  Did, the first time he go to the same outfit as 
the time he used a false name?

 MR. RUSSELL:  The record doesn't disclose 

that, and I don't know.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  These are outfits that 

specialize in making false identifications?

 MR. RUSSELL:  Again, the record doesn't 

disclose how sophisticated the operation was.  In this 
case it could just be a guy who does this; it could be a 
very sophisticated operation.  I think it's kind of all 
over the place out there, in the real world.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Do you have any sense 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of -- because there are any people with false 
identification papers, how many times it turns out to be 
the number of a live person, and how many times it turns 
out like it was in the first instance in this case; it 
is just a number, a made-up number that doesn't belong 
to anybody?

 MR. RUSSELL:  I'm afraid I don't have a good 

sense of that.  But just to be clear, in addition to 
being able to just say on the face of the fact about the 
identification that the government can present 
circumstantial evidence to the jury, in a great number 
of cases, particularly the kinds that Congress was most 
concerned about, the way that they -- the defendant 
obtained the identification and the way that they used 
it provides powerful circumstantial evidence of 
knowledge.

 Somebody who breaks into a computer system 
or unauthorizedly uses access to a computer system or 
goes dumpster diving looking for IDs obviously knows 
that they are going to end up with an ID that belongs to 
another person, and if they use the ID to get into a 
real person's bank account, then it is awfully good 
information that they were aware that that was an ID 
that belonged to another person, because there's no 
sense in trying to break into the bank account of a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

non-existent person.  And so we don't think that this is 
a case in which the government faces some kind of 
insurmountable burden in proving knowledge in a way that 
is particularly different than -- than other kinds of 
situations in which the law commonly requires the 
government to prove what a defendant knew or did not.

 To get back to the victim-focused nature of 
this, you know, Congress could -- we don't dispute that 
Congress could make a policy judgment that it would be 
good to hold defendants strictly liable when they used 
an identification that turns out to belong to somebody 
else.  Sometimes the law does.  Most commonly with 
respect to sentencing enhancement provisions of the sort 
that the government points to with respect to the 
quantity of selling drugs in a school zone.  But when 
Congress makes that choice, Congress makes that clear in 
the decks of the statute, so if you look at the drug 
quantity of the school zone provisions that are in 
appendix E and D of the yellow brief appendix, in 
appendix D you see Congress establishes in subsection A 
of that provision the "unlawful act," and it says it's 
unlawful for any person knowingly to manufacture, 
distribute, et cetera, a controlled substance.

 It includes in that provision a knowledge 

requirement, which, by the way, nobody thinks means only 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that the government has to show that they knowingly 
manufactured something which turned out to be a 
controlled substance.  Everybody agrees that the 
knowledge requirement in that position extends to the 
direct object phrase "controlled substance."

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that doesn't 
help you much because it can't be knowingly manufacture 
something is the crime.  I mean, you do have to go on to 
have that make any sense.  You don't have to go on to 
make your provision make any sense, that he knowingly, 
you know, uses a means of identification.

 MR. RUSSELL:  I disagree as matter of common 

usage.  But I think when Congress intends to have a 
statute read that way, versus a statute that looks like 
this one, which in subsection (b) lays out the facts 
that are aggravating, that they are going to find 
separately, the drug quantity in subsection (b) of 21 
USC 48-

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, I guess --I 

guess basically this is what I was trying to say earlier 
as well.  You have in your statute in between there, the 
modifier "without lawful authority."

 MR. RUSSELL:  Right.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So that means that 
it can stop at a lot more number of earlier places then 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

can the statute you were just citing in appendix D.

 MR. RUSSELL:  Well, to answer that question 

-- and then I'd like to return to the school zone 
example -- the fact that Congress put in "without lawful 
authority" and enclosed it with commas I think simply 
reflects that Congress understood that, by inserting 
that phrase between transitive verbs and the direct 
object, it was interrupting the natural flow of the 
sentence.  And I don't think it means -- so the first 
comma may tell the reader to pause, but the second comma 
I think just as clearly indicates to the reader that the 
flow of the sentence continues.

 And so that I don't think you would say a 

sentence that says, John knowingly used without 
permission a pair of scissors of his mother's.  You 
would still read that to mean that John knew that the 
scissors he was using belonged to his mother.  That the 
insertion of the parenthetical I think indicates that 
Congress knew it could put it at the end and not change 
the meaning or put it here.

 But when Congress intends to write a statute 

that -- that holds people strictly liable for 
aggravating circumstances or writes something like the 
quantity provisions where, in subsection (b), Congress 
sets out the punishment that is deserving because of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that aggravating factor, and it does not include a mens 
rea requirement in subsection (b).  And in the school 
zone provision, Congress likewise has no mens rea 
requirement with respect to the knowledge of the person 
being in a school zone.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What about the 

government's argument in this case that Congress was 
really going after people who have false identification 
because of its concern to protect the victim, that is 
the person whose number is misused?  So the government 
is urging that we take a victim-centered approach to the 
statute.

 MR. RUSSELL:  I do think it's a fair point, 
that this was a statute that was concerned with victims. 
Lots of criminal statutes are.  But we don't ordinarily 
read it -- Congress doesn't ordinarily enact even 
victim-focused statutes without mens rea requirements, 
and courts don't ordinarily narrowly construe them, even 
though it's true that omitting mens rea requirements or 
narrowly construing them furthers the purpose of 
protecting of the victim.  In fact, by far more -- far 
more commonly, as the LaFave treatise that we cite to 
you explains, we don't hold defendants criminally 
strictly liable for all of the consequences of their 
crimes.  It gives the example of somebody who breaks 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

into a house intending to rob it and accidentally sets 
it on fire -- you know, they're engaged in unlawful 
conduct to start with -- and so they're not fully to 
blame there, but nonetheless we don't hold them 
criminally liable for arson because they didn't intend 
it.

 Now, Congress could make a choice.  Congress 
could choose to hold that arsonist strictly liable -- or 
the robbery suspect strictly liable for the arson, just 
as Congress could hold defendants like Petitioner 
strictly liable for the fact that he ends up using an 
identification that belongs to somebody else.

 But our point is simply there are reasons 

why Congress might not do that, including the nominalist 
kind of penalties that end up being meted out here, 
where you have people -- two people with identical 
culpability ending up with substantially different 
punishments, or people with substantially different 
culpability ending up with identical punishments.

 You have the classic aggravated identity 
thief who breaks into a bank account using a means of 
identification he knows belongs to somebody else.  It's 
exactly the same sentence, under the government's view, 
as somebody like Petitioner who just unknowingly used a 
number in order to get a job. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Now, it's not impossible that Congress could 

make that policy choice, but when it does it tends to 
write statutes that look very different than this.  It 
writes ones that look like -- that are quantity statutes 
that I just read or the school zone statute.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  It's not a clear -- what 

-- what if the accused knowingly uses a card --
identity belonging to a dead person?  Is that a real 
person?

 MR. RUSSELL:  I think that's an open 

question in the circuits.  Some circuits have said that 
it has to be a means of identification belonging to a 
living person, but that's -- that's not settled.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  What is your view?
 MR. RUSSELL:  My view -- I mean, the statute 
says "of another person."  I think you would ordinarily 
presume that to mean a live person.  But ultimately, I 
guess, it really doesn't matter to the outcome of my 
case.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Well, it does, though, in 
a way, because I understand your theory is there are two 
basic kinds of crimes.  You just use the document for 
your own source if you want to get the job or you want 
entry into the country or something like that.  That's a 
minor crime.  But if you are -- it's identity theft 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

where you are pretending to be somebody else so you can 
get advantage of his credit and his assets and his 
access to computers.  That's a much more serious crime.
 Now, if it's a dead person, it seems to me 
to be in the former category, rather than in the latter.
 MR. RUSSELL:  That's true.  Certainly, using 

the identification of a dead person doesn't impose the 
kind of harms on real victims that Congress seemed to be 
most focused on in this case.  And certainly, our 
interpretation of the statute we don't think unduly 
interferes with that protective function, precisely 
because the government ought to, in a great many cases, 
very easily show that the way that the person used the 
means of identification shows that they knew that it 
belonged to somebody else.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  His conduct would amount 

to identity -- what did it say -- is there a crime of 
identity fraud?

 MR. RUSSELL:  Well, that's what we have been 
using to refer to the underlying predicate offense here, 
which is the misuse of the immigration documents.  But 
that's -- that applies whenever somebody uses an 
immigration document -- and there is another statute for 
Social Security cards -- that doesn't belong to them. 
And the government only has to prove that they knew that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

it didn't belong them.  And that in itself is a 
substantial protection for people who might be unknowing 
victims or victims of somebody like my client.  He is 
substantially deterred from risking their credit by the 
mere fact that he is going to face a substantial penalty 
for using the false document in and of itself.  So --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It would be equally false 

if the Social Security number were fictitious -- it 
didn't belong to --

MR. RUSSELL:  Didn't belong to anybody. 

That's correct.

 If I could reserve the remainder of my time.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. 

Russell.

 Mr. Heytens.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF TOBY J. HEYTENS

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. HEYTENS:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 It is common ground that there are at least 
three preconditions to liability under 18 U.S.C. section 
1028A(a)(1):  First and foremost, the defendant must 
commit one of the separate predicate felonies that are 
specifically enumerated in subsection (c).  Second, 
during the commission of that felony, the defendant must 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

use something that is in fact a means of identification 
of another person.  And, third, that use of the means of 
identification of another person must itself be without 
lawful authority and must have the effect of 
facilitating the defendant's commission of the 
underlying predicate felony.

 The question in this case is whether the 

government must also show that the defendant was 
specifically aware that the means of identification that 
he uses to facilitate his underlying crime was that of 
another person.  And the answer to that question is no.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Heytens, did the 

prosecutor give the right answer to Judge Friedman in 
the district court when Judge Friedman asked:  Where I 
take two people and one of them gets false Social 
Security cards and it happens that the number belongs to 
no live person, and another person goes to the same 
outfit, but the card that he gets does belong to a live 
person -- he doesn't know in either case -- did the 
prosecutor give the right answer when he said, when it 
turns out to be a fictitious number, no two-year add-on, 
but if it turns out to be a real number, two years' 
mandatory addition?  The prosecutor says, yes, that's 
the difference.  Was that the right answer?

 MR. HEYTENS:  Yes, it was.  If I could 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

explain, the first -- the reason that the first 
defendant is not guilty, is that it is an absolute 
precondition for liability under this statute that the 
means of identification in question be that of another 
person.

 So there are no victimless violations of 

1028(a)(1), because if we are having this conversation 
at all, there was a real victim involved in the case. 
The reason the second individual is --

JUSTICE ALITO:  If I could just interrupt 

you, why does "of another individual" -- why can't that 
be read to mean "of a person other than the person who 
is using the identification," whether this other person 
is real or not?

 MR. HEYTENS:  Justice Alito, I think the 
answer to that relates to the definition of "means of 
identification," which is reproduced in the appendix to 
our brief.  I believe it's 4a.  That's 18 U.S.C. 
1028(d)(7).  The definition of "means of identification" 
means "any name or number that may be used, alone or in 
conjunction, to identify a specific individual."  And we 
understand that, especially in conjunction with the 
words "of another person," to require, at least under 
1028A(a)(1), that we have to be talking about a real 
individual. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Heytens, this raises 
the question I was talking to your opponent about.  Do 
you think that Congress intended there to be a more 
severe punishment for somebody who really steals another 
person's -- knowingly steals somebody else's identity so 
he can cash in on his credit and so forth?  It seems to 
me, arguably, that's the important difference.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Justice Stevens, I agree that 
a person who deliberately sets out to misappropriate the 
identity of a known individual is almost certainly more 
culpable than someone who does not do it but 
inadvertently does so.

 But I don't think that is controlling in 
this case for a very important reason, and the very 
important reason -- again, to go back to what I said at 
the outset -- is we are not having this conversation 
unless the defendant has already committed the predicate 
felony, and he is subject to punishment for that 
predicate felony.  For example, in this case, the 
predicate felony subjected Mr. Flores-Figueroa to a term 
of up to 10 years of imprisonment, above and beyond the 
two years.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Yeah, but I think -- I 

thought that argument cut against you, because what you 
are saying is everybody is on the hook.  There's a basic 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

problem here, which iis -- I will call it identity 
fraud -- and yet you get an extra two years if it just 
so happens that the number you picked out of the air 
belonged to somebody else.

 MR. HEYTENS:  I understand how from the 
defendant's perspective -- to use the Justice -- the 
example that Justice Ginsburg used as well, but it may 
seem from the defendant's perspective that he just so 
happened to take a real person's number.  But I think 
the critical fact here is that it not really seemed that 
way from the perspective of the real individual whose 
number he ended up using.  And I think that's the 
critically important fact.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, I think that's what 
we normally bring into sentencing.  I mean, normally, 
and that we don't impose mandatory.  We impose mandatory 
sentences when the person does something, you know, 
that's wrong and he knows it is wrong.

 When harm occurs, and the harm wasn't known 
or intended, you can take care of it if you are a judge. 
You increase the sentence.  That's the problem.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Justice Breyer, my answer to 

your question and probably only of interest to those 
members of the court who find legislative history 
probative, but I think for those who do, the very 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

significant answer to that is that the one thing the 
legislative history makes very clear is that at least 
some members of Congress believed that judicially 
discretionary sentences before this statute were enacted 
were failing to adequately take into account the harm 
suffered by real victims.

 There is very clear legislative briefs to 
that effect.  The statement of just leaving up to the 
judge to take into account the impact --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- history, do you know 
what people who are stealing identities of people who 
have been bilked or -- I think that --

MR. HEYTENS:  I certainly agree, Justice 
Stevens, that there is a portion of the House report 
that lists nine specific cases in which Congress -- of 
which some members of Congress -- people obviously 
report -- made the judgment that people who would engage 
in the sort of conduct that Congress wants to reach had 
received short sentences under the previous regime. 
There are nine specific examples given in the House 
report.

 I acknowledge freely that eight of those 
nine examples very clearly by the description involve 
individuals who must have known that they were using --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, why not just says 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

"means of identification," then?  I mean, it's odd to 
write a statute that has elements and you put the word 
"knowingly," and the knowingly is supposed to modify 
some elements but not others.  I can't think of other 
statutes that do that.  There may be some.

 It's pretty peculiar.  You could have left 

off the last element.  I mean, if you are drafting a 
criminal statute, anyone would know that.

 MR. HEYTENS:  There are two responses to 

that, Justice Breyer.  First of all, Congress has 
written in some statutes that clearly increase the --
that know -- it doesn't go all the way through, because 
they repeat the knowingly requirement in those statutes.
 For example -- and it's the appendix to the 

reply, Appendix G, at page 23A, the appendix to the 
reply brief, that reproduces 18 U.S.C. 922(q)(2)(A), 
which is a statute that repeats another one of the 
requirements in the text of the statute, which under 
Petitioner's argument doesn't make any sense at all.  He 
would just --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Give me one where what they 

have done is they have used "knowingly" at the 
beginning, and there are four elements of the crime, and 
-- I'm not saying there are none, but I would like to 
know what they are where "knowingly" doesn't modify 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

something there is strict liability for.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Sure.  I mean --
JUSTICE BREYER:  That's going to be 

jurisdictional -- probably jurisdictional hooks, like --
there could be -- there could be some.  But I don't 
see -- you tell me.

 MR. HEYTENS:  I will give you two.  There's 

the statute that is at issue before this Court in 
Morissette v. United States, and it's the statute that 
was construed by the D.C. Circuit in an opinion by 
Justice Ginsburg in United States v. Chin.

 The statute in Morissette says, "knowingly 

converts his use anything of value of the United 
States."  In Morissette, this Court held the defendant 
had to have knowledge of the facts sufficient to make 
his conduct a conversion.  He has to know that the 
property has an owner, that it is not abandoned, and he 
has to known that the owner is not him.

 But the lower courts have uniformly held 

that under that statute the defendant does not need to 
know that the property in question belonged to the 
United States.

 Or take the Chin statute.  The Chin statute 
says "knowingly and intentionally uses, hires or employs 
a person under the age of 18 to avoid detection of drug 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

trafficking crime."

 In Chin the D.C. Circuit said in every other 

court of appeals who have considered the question has 
said the defendant does not need to be specifically 
aware that the individual in question is less than 18 
years old.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  But the reason for that is 

that it is an equally culpable act where you steal 
something off of a field than Morissette.  I agree the 
Morissette case supports you, even though they relied on 
it, which is interesting to me.  But that's a -- you are 
distinguishing between two equally culpable acts.  It 
doesn't even make any difference whether he knew the 
owner was some private farmer or the United States.

 In this case, you have got two really big 

categories of different kinds, and instead they are 
treated alike is the thing that troubles me here.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Justice Stevens, I get a 

Morissette -- the hypothetical defendant standpoint of 
Mr. Morissette.  It doesn't really depend on whether he 
knows the property belongs to the Federal Government or 
he thinks he is stealing from his neighbor.  He is a bad 
person either way.

 I don't think that is true of the Chin 

statute, though I tend make a very strong argument that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

someone who deliberately employs someone that he has --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  You can do it in this 

statute.  That is the point.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Sure.  Under this statute I 
think the significance is, first and foremost, we are 
not having this discussion unless he has already 
committed an underlying -- felony.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Even that isn't -- I mean, 

here you are treating it as if it is a separate thing. 
That is fair enough.  And what are the words "of another 
person" doing there if really they are not supposed to 
make any difference in terms of mental state?

 MR. HEYTENS:  What they are doing there 
is -- this goes back to my point this is the victim, 
but, in fact, what they are doing there is to say this 
statute does not apply unless the names or numbers in 
question is actually that of a specific individual.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I could understand your 

argument if you are saying you cannot tell from the tell 
simply from the text what the answer is.  You can only 
tell the answer if you say -- know what the answer is if 
you say Congress had victims in mind, and if we are 
going to worry about victims, we are not going to 
worry -- we are going to take a narrow rather than a 
broad view of "knowingly." 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

If that's your position, you agree that if 

you simply look at the text of this statute without 
considering confessional policy, you don't win?

 MR. HEYTENS:  We don't concede that the text 
of the statute alone unambiguously resolves the issue --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Does it -- does it even 
come close to supporting it?  I mean, let's start out 
with your analogous position.  Your analogous position 
is that the "knowingly" simply refers to the -- the --
the three acts which are specified by which the 
identification can be -- can be -- the misidentification 
can be perpetrated.

 Transfers, possesses or uses.  Could 

Congress possibly have said, gee, he might not know that 
he was acting to transfer or to possess or to use.  That 
is not the serious possibility.  So, "knowingly" has to 
refer to something more than the three possible acts.

 And once you get beyond the three possible 
acts, and you say, well, we are going to draw the line 
between "without authority" and "another person," that 
seems like an arbitrary line.  And the arbitrariness of 
the line seems even more obvious when the "without a 
lawful authority" is set off as a parenthetical.  And 
the real logic of the statute -- the real -- the 
operative description is "a means of identification of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

another person."

 That's why, it seems to me, if you look at 

the text, you could say, well, of course, the 
"knowingly" has got to refer to the everything that 
follows, both lawful authority and another person.

 And that's why, it seems to me, if you are 
going to win, you have got to win on the grounds that 
Congress wouldn't have meant what seems so natural, 
because Congress wanted to help victims not defendants.
 Where am I going wrong there, if I'm going 

wrong?

 MR. HEYTENS:  I think, as I said before, we 
do not contend that this statutory text standing along 
ambiguously supports our position enough to terminate 
the inquiry.  And I certainly agree that the purpose is 
an important part of our argument.

 I think there are two important things to --

briefly, two of the things you said there.  Once you 
extend "knowingly" to about -- I think the significance 
is with the effect of once you extend "knowingly," first 
to "lawful authority" and then to the "use of 
identification."

 Once you extend it to "without lawful 

authority," any conceivable argument that the other side 
can have about criminalizing innocent or inadvertent 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

conduct disappears, because then at that point the 
defendant knows specifically that he is acting in manner 
that is contrary to law.

 And then second, if --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  Is it worth two years?
 MR. HEYTENS:  I think -- I think it is.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  The only thing that we know 
for sure that is that Congress said it is not worth two 
years extra unless that of another person was involved. 
And if that is so significant or necessarily significant 
in getting a two-year add-on, then it seems reasonable, 
I suppose, that Congress -- the state of mind -- that.
 MR. HEYTENS:  Well, I think, first of all, 
at that point the defendant already has two different 
culpable states of mind.  He has the culpable state of 
mind to commit the underlying felony and he has the 
culpable state of mind with regard to -- now, I agree 
with you, Justice Souter, there's argument you can make 
both ways as a matter of policy.  I think so -- some of 
the policy with my colleague on the other side 
illustrates why Congress would have made the decision it 
did.

 And it's all of those pieces what the 

defendant is reckless, where the defendant is willfully 
ignorant or the defendant simply doesn't know because --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  All Congress has got to do 

is to say "recklessly."

 MR. HEYTENS:  It is certainly true that 

Congress has --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  It's an -- it's an accepted 
term.  Every -- well, almost everybody knows what -- is 
a model Penal Code standard, and so on.  All they have 
to do is put the word "recklessly" in there.  It would 
cover every "knowingly" case.  It wouldn't omit anything 
that is covered by this, and it would solve precisely 
that problem.  And they didn't do it.

 MR. HEYTENS:  I certainly agree there are 

other ways that Congress could have written the statute 
to make it clear.  But I think it -- they could have 
written the statute in a way that would be more clear, 
both that would resolve the case in favor of the 
Petitioner, and it would resolve the case in favor of 
us.  So I don't know how that cuts either way.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, I tell you what cuts 
one way or another.  I -- I find it -- I find it, well, 
not surprising because I have heard -- I have heard the 
government do it before.  You acknowledge that this is 
an ambiguous statute.  That -- that on its face it -- it 
could mean the one thing or the other.

 I would normally conclude from that that we 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

apply the Rule of Lenity.  Since it could go either way, 
let's assume that the defendant gets the -- the tie goes 
to the defendant.  What -- why shouldn't I resolve it 
that way?

 MR. HEYTENS:  Well, under the Rule of 

Lenity, Justice Scalia, the tie does go to the 
defendant.  But, as the Court has made clear again and 
again including in its opinion in Hayes, the fact that 
the statutory text has a certain amount of ambiguity 
doesn't automatically trigger the Rule of Lenity.  The 
Rule of Lenity --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Shouldn't it --
shouldn't it -- is it time to revisit the Court's 
decision in Hayes?

 (Laughter.)
 MR. HEYTENS:  The Court -- what the Court 

said yesterday in Hayes is precisely what it said before 
in Liparota.  The Rule of Lenity comes into play at the 
end of the proper statutory interpretation after you 
consider text, purpose, legislative history, and all 
other --

JUSTICE BREYER:  All that is true, and that 

is actually where I was going.  It -- it seems to me 
where the ambiguity is precisely -- is that none of us 
doubts, I don't think, that what Congress is after with 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

this extra two-year mandatory is identity theft.

 And where the argument lies is between did 
Congress do this by punishing people only who intend to 
engage in identity theft or people who, while not 
intending to do so, have that effect.  That's the issue.

 MR. HEYTENS:  I think that is --
JUSTICE BREYER:  And I don't thing I can 

resolve that one way or the other from anything you have 
said.  It is rather hard to say.  So, therefore, suppose 
I use the Rule of Lenity this way, which I am trying 
out.  I am not buying it.

 In the case of mandatory-minimum sentences, 

there is a particularly strong argument for a Rule of 
Lenity with bite.  And that is because mandatory 
minimums, given the human condition, inevitably throw 
some people into the box who shouldn't be there.  And if 
this person should be there and we put him outside, the 
judge could give him the same sentence anyway.

 So the harm by mistakenly throwing a person 

outside the box through the Rule of Lenity to the 
government is small.  The harm to the individual by 
wrongly throwing him into the box is great.  The Rule of 
Lenity is, therefore, limited to a very small subset of 
cases where it has particular force, but this is one of 
them. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HEYTENS:  Justice Breyer, I -- I guess 

what I would say first and foremost is I -- I would -- I 
think that would be a fairly significant 
reconceptualization of the purpose of the Rule of 
Lenity.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's why I raised it.
 MR. HEYTENS:  Right.  The Court -- if I can 

just explain why I think that is --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You have to rename it the 
rule of, you know, who gets hurt the most or something.

 MR. HEYTENS:  The rule -- the Court has said 
over and over again that the two purposes of the Rule of 
Lenity are providing fair warning to people before their 
conduct subjects them to criminal punishment and to 
demonstrate the proper respect for the lawmaking powers 
of Congress.  I don't think the fact that a statute 
imposes a mandatory minimum triggers either one of those 
concerns in and of itself.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Then what about the --

the even division -- I think it is an even division, 3/3 
-- is it a 3/3 split?  And if you wanted one indication 
that this statute is indeed grievously ambiguous, it is 
that -- that good minds have reached opposite 
conclusions with well-reasoned decisions on both sides. 
So it seems to me that this is a very strong argument 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that this is an ambiguous statute, unusually so.

 And I factor into that the answer that was 
given to Judge Friedman's question, which astonished me 
the first time I read it:  That the prosecutor would 
say, Your Honor, I am saying no different degree of 
culpability.  One happened to get a fictitious number; 
the other happened to get a real number; two years for 
the second one.  There is no difference at all in the 
state of mind of -- of the two defendants.  That's --
that's why I think the -- the ambiguity argument is 
strong.  Why in the world would Congress want to draw 
such a line?

 MR. HEYTENS:  Well, again, if I could --

there are several things there.  If I could start with 
the last one, why would Congress want to draw such a 
line, I think the reason Congress would want to draw 
such a line is for several reasons.

 First and foremost is the fundamentally 

fix-and-focus nature of this statute.  And I -- I agree 
that at least on first blush that Judge Friedman's 
policy does strike a number of people as implausible.
 But I think if you step back, things like 

that are not uncommon throughout the criminal law.  The 
-- the precise same objection could be made to the 
existence of the felony-murder rule.  Two people go out 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

to engage in precisely the same unlawful course of 
conduct.  Neither one of them wants to kill anybody, and 
neither one of them wants anyone to get hurt.  In one of 
them the gun goes off, and in one of them the gun 
doesn't go off.  And one of them is now guilty of felony 
murder, and the other one is guilty of -- of robbery, 
which is admittedly a serious crime but not as serious 
of a crime as murder.  There are other examples of that.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Yes, but in this 

particular case, when you talk about identity theft, it 
is inconceivable the defendant would not know about fact 
that there is another person involved.  And so the --
the mens rea issue is easy in this case.  The only time 
it's -- it's difficult is when he didn't -- when he did 
not use it for an identity-theft purpose.

 MR. HEYTENS:  Well, I think I -- if I 

understand the question correctly, I think there are 
certainly many cases in which the manner in which the 
defendant uses the means of identification will, itself, 
provide powerful circumstantial evidence that he knows 
there is, in fact, another person.  Because otherwise 
the action won't make any sense.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  And those are the category 
of cases in which Congress wanted to have a more severe 
penalty. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HEYTENS:  I certainly agree that those 
are actually some of the categories of cases.  I -- I --
what I guess I disagree about is that those are the only 
category of cases.  And I -- I can try another tack on 
that.

 When you -- when you review the -- the House 

report, the legislative history that talks about the 
reason, the background, the need for the legislation, 
Congress repeatedly trots out a great many statistics 
about the number of people who are victimized by 
identity theft, the amount of dollar harm that is caused 
to people and businesses by identity theft, and --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  In any of those cases did 

they talk about unknowing identity theft?

 MR. HEYTENS:  What I guess I am saying, 

Justice Stevens, is in none of those cases did Congress 
-- when it was trotting out those statistics did 
Congress distinguish between situations in which the 
victim was able to determine whether the defendant knew 
that he existed.  I mean --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is this in the statute?
 MR. HEYTENS:  It is not in the context of 

the statute, Justice Scalia.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, let's not say 

Congress, then.  Does -- does the Committee? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HEYTENS:  The Committee report, I 
apologize, Justice Scalia.  The Committee report --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  You might not convince 

Justice Scalia of this, but you might convince me.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. HEYTENS:  What I am saying is when the 
courts were talking about the harm suffered by -- the 
amount of harm, in the course of talking about the 
number of people who report that they were victims, 
there is no distinction made whatsoever based on the 
distinction that the Petitioner would like to draw.  And 
I think there is a very good, practical reason for that.

 A person who discovers that there is a 

problem with their Social Security number having been 
misused, for example, by someone, that person is almost 
certainly not going to be able to figure out whether the 
person who used their Social Security number knows that 
they exist or not.  All they know is that problems are 
now showing up on their credit reports.  All they know 
is they are getting questions from the Social Security 
Administration.  About this earned income that they 
haven't paid taxes on, for example.  The person who is 
in the position of the victim is not well positioned to 
determine how the perpetrator got hold of their 
identifying information. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

If I could go back --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but in that 
case you tell them, look, the person's got 10 years. 
Right?  If they find the guy, he is going to face up to 
10 years for identity fraud.

 MR. HEYTENS:  He is going to face up to 

10 years, Mr. Chief Justice.  I think that's the 
important thing.  I think Congress rationally could have 
been concerned that the guy is not actually going to get 
10 years because there was evidence before them that the 
person was not getting 10 years, that the person was 
being, at least in the judgment of some people, not 
receiving sufficient punishment to reflect that, that 
there was a real person who was harmed by the conduct --
that was harmed by the conduct that eventually had an 
adverse impact on him.

 I think that fundamentally was the 

motivating force behind the statute, the need to have a 
statute that takes adequate and discreet account for the 
presence of real victims.  Now the Petitioner, for 
example, refers to the statement of having a 
method-statute excuse, as having a mandatory minimum. 
It's not correct to say the statute has a mandatory 
minimum.  This statute has a mandatory, discreet, 
prescribed punishment.  It is not two years up to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

something else.  It is two years, and exactly two years.

 And I think that's highly significant. 

Because I think what it says is that Congress thought 
there was a discreet measure of punishment that was 
appropriate to reflect the presence of a real victim. 
The fact that there is a real victim gets you two years. 
You get whatever else you get on your underlying felony, 
which can take into account all sorts of other 
considerations about your crime, but the fact that there 
was a discreet victim is an independent harm to that 
person that should be taken into account in imposing 
criminal punishment.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You could also say you get 
two years for knowing that there is a discreet victim. 
I mean -- I -- you can describe it either way.

 MR. HEYTENS:  You certainly can.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And it makes sense either 

way.

 MR. HEYTENS:  You certainly can describe it 
either way, but I think in light of the concern that the 
harms to real victims are not being adequately taken 
into account, it doesn't seem to us to make sense to 
make the presence of that additional punishment turn on 
whether the defendant is specifically aware that the 
victim existed, and I think at the end of the --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You -- you gave earlier 
the felony murder example of the one who, the gun goes 
off, he didn't mean to kill anybody.  But I thought 
homicide is -- it's an answer to your argument that this 
statute was entirely victim-centered, because a person 
is just as dead if he's the victim of a reckless driver 
as a premeditated murder, and yet we certainly 
distinguish the penalties in those cases, no matter that 
the harm was identical.

 MR. HEYTENS:  We certainly do, Justice 

Ginsburg, and we don't make the extravagant claim that 
law doesn't look to relative moral culpability in 
assigning criminal punishment.  I'm responding to the 
argument on the other side that that's all the law ever 
looks to.  The law frequently looks to two different 
things; it looks to relative culpability levels, but it 
also looks at the existence of harm.  If you want to 
continue with the homicide example, if you look at moral 
culpability, two people who both intentionally attempt 
to cause the death of another human being without any 
legal excuse for doing so, from a culpability standpoint 
they engaged in precisely the same level of moral wrong; 
but law treats attempted murder and completed murder 
extremely differently from one another.  And that's 
because in one case, as Justice Ginsburg points out, you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

have a real victim, a person dies; there is a discreet 
level of harm to the victim that is not -- that does not 
occur when fortunately the person who tries to kill 
someone else fails.

 And I think at the end of the day that is 
the most important issue in this case.  You see this 
argument again and again and again, especially in the 
circuits -- let me go back to Justice Ginsburg's point 
about the three circuits that have gone either way.

 First, as a -- as just a threshold matter, 

this Court has said repeatedly that the fact that courts 
have disagreed about the proper interpretation of a 
statute doesn't suffice to trigger the rule of lenity, 
because this Court almost never takes a case where there 
is not a circuit split.  And to say the existence of a 
circuit split makes the statute ambiguous would mean 
that the criminal defendant wins every time; and the 
Court has not said that.

 But -- but also I think where those courts 
have fundamentally gone wrong is they have essentially 
said this is a crime about theft; theft requires you to 
know that there is a real owner; if you don't know there 
is a real owner, that is not theft.  And I think where 
they went wrong was at the very beginning.

 Where they went wrong at the very beginning 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

is asking the question of whether it is natural to refer 
to someone like Petitioner as a thief.  We think the 
more appropriate question as the district court said in 
Godin is whether it would be at all unusual to refer to 
the two innocent people whose Social Security number and 
alien registration number Petitioner used to facilitate 
his two underlying felonies were the victims of identity 
theft.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, the problem 

with that is the statute says identity theft; it doesn't 
say anything about victims.

 MR. HEYTENS:  It certainty does, Mr. Chief 

Justice, but it says identity theft; it says -- not 
"theft," and I think the question is whether you refer 
to those people as having -- identity theft occurred in 
this case.  And I think if you look at from the victim's 
perspective, which we think the perspective that 
Congress was looking at it from, the answer to that 
question is yes.  And for that reason we ask that the 
judgment of the Eighth Circuit be affirmed.  Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Four minutes, Mr. Russell.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. RUSSELL:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

I would like to address just a couple of 

quick questions about the text, and then -- other issues 
as appropriate.

 Justice Breyer, you asked if there were 

examples of other statutes in which knowledge 
requirements didn't extend to all the elements, but the 
government gave two examples.  The first, Morissette, is 
clearly an example with a jurisdictional element.  All 
of the circuit courts that say that the knowledge 
requirement doesn't extend to, of the United States, do 
so on the grounds that because there is a jurisdictional 
elements and jurisdictional elements don't extend --
don't require mens rea.

 With respect to the Chin example, I do 

acknowledge that there -- there is a decision that this 
Court hasn't reviewed in which the D.C. Circuit says it 
doesn't extend to the age of the victim.  That falls 
within a category of special cases where courts have 
treated the victimization of children differently, in 
part because it's so difficult and nearly impossible to 
group the defendant's knowledge of the age of the 
victim.

 That kind of practical barrier simply 

doesn't exist here for all the reasons we've discussed 
earlier about the government's ability to rely on 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

circumstantial evidence to show the defendant's state of 
mind here.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  There aren't too many 

15-year olds who look like they're over 21?

 MR. RUSSELL:  That's right.
 (Laughter.)
 MR. RUSSELL:  That's right.  With respect to 
the victim-focused nature of this, again, it's true that 
-- that criminal law takes into account both defendant 
culpability and harm to victims; but the ordinary 
resolution is to reserve punishment in the criminal 
system for those who intend the harms that they inflict. 
There are, of course, exceptions like felony murder.  As 
the history of this points out, that kind of treatment 
tends to be reserved for serious bodily injury or death 
kinds of harm, and there is no reason to think that 
Congress thought, although identity theft is serious, 
that this fell within that kind of category of 
exceptions.  There are of course these other exceptions 
where Congress relies on facts not known to the 
defendant for sentencing enhancement, but as I've 
mentioned earlier, it tends to write those statutes in a 
way that makes clear that those enhancement factors are 
separate and apart from the underlying events, and they 
don't include an expressed mens rea requirement then. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The government has to say that any case, any statute 
that looks like this, that has been treated as a 
sentencing enhancement provision.

 Finally, with respect to the rule of lenity, 

the government I think has acknowledged that the 
statutory text is at least ambiguous with respect to 
whether or not it compels their conclusion.  They 
acknowledge that you can make policy arguments both ways 
about what would be a good idea about how to treat this 
kind of conduct, and I think regardless of your view of 
what the trigger of the rule of lenity is, this is a 
classic case for it.

 If Congress intended the government's 

interpretation, the government is free to go back to 
Congress, and there is every reason to believe that 
Congress will be receptive.  The problem with 
overconstruing a mandatory sentence or a mandatory 
minimum, as Justice Breyer was alluding to, is that it 
does have this particularly harsh effect, and one that 
is as a practical matter hard to undo in the legislative 
process, which as the Court has recognized, is another 
function served by the rule of lenity.

 If the Court has no further questions.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 The case is submitted. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

(Whereupon, at 12:09 p.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

abandoned 

34:17 

ability 53:25 
able 4:5,6 19:9 
46:19 47:16 
above-entitled 

1:12 56:2 

absolute 29:2 
accept 8:5,7 
accepted 40:5 
access 19:18 

26:3 

24:1 

18:4 

accidentally 

accomplished 

account 19:22 
19:25 24:21 
32:5,9 48:19 
49:8,11,22 
54:9 

accused 25:7 
acknowledge 
32:22 40:22 
53:15 55:8 

acknowledged 

acquittal 11:16 
act 10:1 20:21 

acting 37:15 

55:5 

35:8 

39:2 

action 45:22 
acts 35:12 37:10 

37:17,19 

addition 19:8 

additional 9:23 

28:23 

49:23 

address 53:1 
add-on 9:15 
28:21 39:11 

adequate 48:19 
adequately 32:5 

49:21 

Administration 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

47:21 

admittedly 45:7 
advantage 26:2 
adverse 48:16 
affirmed 52:20 
afraid 19:7 
age 34:25 53:17 

answer 13:8 

13:23 55:8 
16:7,9,11 22:2  arson 24:5,9 
28:11,13,20,24  arsonist 24:8 
asked 28:14 
29:16 31:22 
32:1 36:20,21 
36:21 44:2 
50:4 52:18 

53:4 

basically 21:20
basis 16:14
bearing 16:22
beginning 33:23

51:24,25

53:21 

Anthony 16:24 
aggravated 3:22  anybody 9:14 
15:3 16:14 
19:6 27:10 
45:2 50:3 

9:24 24:20 
aggravating 
21:16 22:23 
23:1 

anyway 42:18 

agree 7:23 10:20  apart 54:24 

16:22 30:8 
32:13 35:9 
37:1 38:15 
39:17 40:12 
44:19 46:1 
agrees 21:3 
air 31:3 
alien 9:9 13:5 

apologize 47:2 
appeals 35:3 
APPEARAN... 

1:15 

appendix 20:19 
20:19,20 22:1 
29:17 33:14,15 
33:15 

52:6 

alien's 8:18 
alike 35:17 
Alito 3:25 5:4,20  apply 6:16 15:1 

applies 5:19 
7:23,24 8:4 
26:22 

behalf 1:16,20
asking 52:1 
assets 26:2 
2:4,6,9 3:8 
assigned 9:19 
27:17 52:24
assigning 50:13  believe 7:17
Assistant 1:18 
29:18 55:15
assume 7:3 41:2  believed 32:3
assumed 8:20 
astonished 44:3 
attempt 50:19 
attempted 50:23 
authority 7:24 
8:7 21:22 22:5 
28:4 37:20,23 
38:5,21,24 

20:11 26:24
27:1,9,10
28:18

belonged 3:20

belong 8:24 19:5 

automatically 

41:10 

avoid 34:25 
aware 19:23 
28:9 35:5 
49:24 

awful 14:11 

4:9,19 5:3 9:14 
14:23 19:24
22:17 26:15
31:4 34:21

belonging 15:16

25:8,12

belongs 10:3,5

12:19 13:2
14:16,18 17:16 
19:20 24:12,22
28:16 35:21
Bethesda 1:16
beyond 30:21

37:18

big 35:15
bilked 32:12
billion 17:17
birth 8:23
bit 4:14
bite 42:14
blame 24:4
blindness 10:13
blush 44:20
bodily 54:15
book 16:2
box 42:16,20,22
break 19:25
breaks 19:17
23:25 24:21
Breyer 6:11,20
6:25 31:14,22

36:16 41:1 

6:1,4 9:25 
10:17 14:12 
15:11,18 29:10  appropriate 
29:15 

49:5 52:3 53:3 

approach 23:11  awfully 19:22 
a.m 1:14 3:2 

17:10 

alleges 9:17 
alluding 55:18 
alternatives 

8:10 

ambiguity 4:14 
41:9,24 44:10 
ambiguous 4:16 
5:25 6:1 40:23 
43:22 44:1 
51:16 55:6 
ambiguously 

38:14 

amount 26:16 

41:9 46:11 
47:8 

analogous 37:8 

37:8 

arbitrariness 

37:21 

arbitrary 37:21 
arguably 30:7 
argue 18:9 
argument 1:13 
2:2,7 3:4,7 6:5 
6:23 7:1 8:11 
14:5,6 17:23 
23:7 27:16 
30:24 33:19 
35:25 36:19 
38:16,24 39:18 
42:2,13 43:25 
44:10 50:4,14 
51:7 52:23 
arguments 

B

b 21:15,17 22:24 

23:2

back 17:20 20:7 

30:15 36:14
44:22 48:1
51:8 55:14
background

46:8

back-up 8:3,3
bad 35:22
bank 19:22,25

24:21

barrier 53:23
based 47:10
basic 25:22

30:25

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

32:25 33:10,21 
34:3 36:18 
41:22 42:7 
43:1,6 53:4 
55:18 

brief 20:19 

29:18 33:16 
briefly 38:18 
briefs 32:7 
bring 31:15 
broad 36:25 
burden 20:3 
businesses 46:12 
buy 18:13 
buying 42:11 
buys 10:5 
C 

28:7,19 29:8 
30:14,19 35:10 
35:15 40:9,16 
40:17 42:12 
45:10,13 48:3 
50:25 51:6,14 
52:16 55:1,12 
55:25 56:1 
cases 13:23 

19:12 26:12 
32:15 42:24 
45:18,24 46:2 
46:4,13,16 
50:8 53:18 

cash 30:6 
categories 35:16 

46:2 

category 26:5 
45:23 46:4 
53:18 54:18 

c 2:1 3:1 27:24 
call 31:1 
calls 3:22 
cause 50:20 
capable 15:7 
caused 46:11 
car 4:9,10,11,15  certain 3:24 
4:19 5:1,2,6,7 
7:11 14:18 
5:7,8,10,10,12 
41:9 
5:14 

certainly 26:6,9 

card 8:23 9:8 
10:6,7,10,21 
12:25 13:6 
14:14 16:19 
17:15 25:7 
28:18 

cards 11:6,17 
12:1,7,8,11 
13:9,18 26:24 
28:16 

care 31:20 
CARLOS 1:3 
case 3:4 7:9,19 
9:6 10:23 11:2 
11:3,9,14,15 
11:25 12:17 
13:4,4 14:4 
17:12,14 18:7 
18:22 19:4 
20:2 23:7 
25:19 26:9 

30:10 32:13 
38:15 40:3,12 
45:18 46:1 
47:16 49:16,19 
50:7,10 

certainty 52:12 
cetera 20:23 
change 22:19 
characteristics 

7:11 

Chicago 18:13 
Chief 3:3,9 4:8 

21:6,19,24 
27:13,18 41:12 
45:9 48:2,7 
52:9,12,21,25 
55:24 

children 53:19 
Chin 34:11,23 
34:23 35:2,24 
53:14 

choice 20:16 
24:7 25:2 
choose 24:8 
chooses 14:13 

15:13 

chosen 14:16 
circuit 34:10 

35:2 51:15,16 
52:20 53:9,16 
circuits 25:11,11 

circumstances 

51:8,9 

22:23 

circumstantial 

10:19 11:2 
19:11,15 45:20 
54:1 

cite 23:22 
citing 22:1 
claim 4:17 5:15 

6:9 50:11 
classic 24:20 

55:12 

clear 9:16 19:8 

20:16 25:6 
32:2,7 40:14 
40:15 41:7 
54:23 

clearly 22:11 
32:23 33:11 
53:8 

client 18:7 27:3 
close 37:7 
Code 40:7 
colleague 39:20 
combinations 

17:18 

come 4:6 37:7 
comes 13:24 

41:18 

comma 7:10,13 

22:10,10 

commas 22:5 
commission 
27:25 28:5 
commit 27:23 

39:16 

committed 9:20 

30:17 36:7 
Committee 

46:25 47:1,2 
common 3:11 
5:17 6:8 8:11 
15:9,12 16:20 
21:12 27:20 

commonly 15:2 
20:5,12 23:22 

compels 55:7 
completed 50:23 
completely 7:18 
component 11:2 
computer 19:17 

19:18 

computers 26:3 
concede 37:4 
conceivable 

concern 23:9 

38:24 

49:20 

concerned 19:13 

23:14 48:9 

concerns 43:18 
conclude 40:25 
conclusion 55:7 
conclusions 

43:24 

37:14 38:8,9 
39:8,12,21 
40:1,4,13 
41:25 42:3 
43:16 44:11,15 
44:16 45:24 
46:9,16,18,25 
48:8 49:3 
52:18 54:17,20 
55:13,15,16 
conjunction 

29:21,22 

consequences 

23:24 

consider 41:20 
considerations 

considered 35:3 
considering

49:9 

37:3 

construe 23:18 
construed 7:8 

34:10 

construing

23:20 

contend 38:13 
contest 18:8 
context 4:1,15

5:5 46:22 

condition 42:15 
conduct 24:3 
26:16 32:18 
34:16 39:1 
43:14 45:2 
48:14,15 55:10  controlling

continue 50:18 
continues 22:12 
contrary 39:3 
controlled 20:23 

21:3,5

confessional 

37:3 

30:13 

conventional 

Congress 7:6,15 

7:4,18 

19:12 20:8,9 
20:16,16,20 
21:13 22:4,6 
22:19,21,24 
23:3,7,16 24:7 
24:7,10,14 
25:1 26:8 30:3 
32:3,15,16,18 
33:10 36:22 

conversation 
29:7 30:16 
conversion 

34:16 

converts 34:13 
convince 47:3,4
correct 6:18 

7:20 8:25 9:11 
27:11 48:23 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

29:16,19 
degree 44:5 
deliberately 
30:9 36:1 

demonstrate 

43:15 

Denver 5:21,22 
5:23 6:13,13 

deny 14:9,9 
Department 

disagreed 51:12  D.C 1:9,19 
disappears 39:1 
34:10 35:2 
disclose 18:16 
53:16 
E

18:21 

discovers 47:13 
discreet 48:19 
48:24 49:4,10 
49:14 51:1


discretionary 

32:4


correctly 8:19 

45:17 

counsel 18:1 
52:21 55:24 
country 14:25 

25:24 

couple 53:1 
course 12:16 

13:15,22 18:3

38:3 45:1 47:8 
54:13,19


court 1:1,13 

3:10 7:3,8,11 
14:2 27:19 
28:14 31:24 
34:8,14 35:3 
41:7,16,16

43:7,11 51:11 
51:14,18 52:3

53:16 55:21,23 

courts 23:18 
34:19 47:7 
51:11,19 53:9

53:18 

Court's 41:13 
cover 40:9 
covered 40:10 
credit 26:2 27:4 

30:6 47:19 
crime 6:13,16 
9:13,17 21:8

25:25 26:3,17 
28:10 33:23 
35:1 45:7,8 
49:9 51:21 
crimes 23:25 

25:22 

criminal 5:18 

6:19 7:3 14:11 
23:15 33:8 
43:14 44:23 
49:12 50:13 
51:17 54:9,11 
criminalizing 

criminally 23:23 

38:25 

24:5 

critical 31:10 
critically 31:13 
cue 8:14 
culpability 

24:17,19 44:6 
50:12,16,19,21 
54:10 

culpable 30:11 
35:8,12 39:15 
39:15,17 
cut 30:24 
cuts 40:18,19 

D 

D 3:1 20:19,20 

22:1 

date 8:22 
day 51:5 
dead 25:8 26:4,7 

50:6 

death 50:20 

54:15 

decision 39:21 
41:14 53:15 

decisions 43:24 
decks 20:17 
defendant 10:1 

14:12 15:13 
19:13 20:6 
27:22,25 28:8 
29:2 30:17 
34:14,20 35:4 
35:19 39:2,14 
39:24,24,25 
41:2,3,7 45:11 
45:19 46:19 
49:24 51:17 
54:9,21 

defendants 

20:10 23:23 
24:10 38:9 
44:9 

defendant's 
28:5 31:6,8 
53:21 54:1 
defense 18:1 
definition 15:5 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

E 2:1 3:1,1 

20:19 

earlier 21:20,25 

50:1 53:25
54:22

earned 47:21 
easily 26:13 
easy 45:13 
effect 14:9 28:4 

32:8 38:20
42:5 55:19
effort 8:18 
eight 32:22
Eighth 52:20
either 28:19
35:23 40:18
41:1 43:17
49:15,17,20
51:9

element 5:19 7:4 
8:12 33:7 53:8 

elements 6:15
7:5 33:2,4,23
53:6,12,12 

else's 12:25 13:1 

13:1,13 30:5 
employs 34:24

36:1 

enact 23:16
enacted 32:4
enclosed 22:5
ended 31:12 
ends 24:11
engage 32:17

42:4 45:1

engaged 24:2

50:22

enhancement

20:13 54:21,23
55:3 

entirely 10:10

50:5

1:19 

discussed 53:24 
depend 3:25 5:5  discussing 8:13 
discussion 36:6 
disputable

depiction 7:10 

35:20 

describe 49:15 

7:11 

49:19 

description 

32:23 37:25 

deserving 22:25 
detection 34:25 
determine 46:19 

16:10 

dispute 20:8

distinction 
47:10,11

distinguish
46:18 50:8 

distinguishing

35:12


47:24 

distribute 20:23 
district 28:14 

deterred 27:4 
deviate 7:6 
dies 51:1 
difference 28:24  division 43:20 

diving 19:19 

52:3 

document 25:22 

43:20 

26:23 27:6

documents 

30:7 35:13 
36:12 44:8 
different 9:9 
11:6,6,18,21 
12:6 13:18 
20:4 24:17,18  Doe 14:23 
25:3 35:16 
39:14 44:5 
50:15 

26:21 

Doe's 14:24 
doing 36:11,13
36:15 50:21 
dollar 46:11 
doubts 41:25 
drafting 33:7 
draw 17:3 37:19 

44:11,15,16
47:11 

driver 50:6 
drug 20:17 

21:17 34:25 
drugs 20:15 
dumpster 19:19 

differently 

50:24 53:19 
difficult 14:25 

16:6 45:14 
53:20 

direct 8:15 21:5 

directed 11:16 

22:7 

14:10 

disagree 13:21 

21:12 46:3 

42:1 

50:11 

ESQ 1:16,18 2:3  extravagant 

essentially 51:20  extremely 14:17 
establishes 
15:12,12 50:24 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

expressed 54:25 
extend 38:19,20 

farmer 35:14 
favor 40:16,17 
38:23 53:6,10  February 1:10 
53:12,17 

Federal 3:21 

extends 7:4 21:4 
extra 31:2 39:9 

force 42:24 

48:18 

43:19 50:1,11 
50:25 54:3 

foremost 27:22  Ginsburg's 51:8 
give 17:8 28:13 
28:20 33:21 
34:7 42:18 
given 32:20 
42:15 44:3 

36:5 43:2 
44:18 
form 6:7 
former 26:5 
formulation 

35:21 

fell 54:18 
felonies 27:23 

52:7 

felony 27:25 

28:6 30:18,19 
30:20 36:7 
39:16 45:5 
49:7 50:2 
54:13 

44:25 

fictitious 27:8 
28:21 44:6 

felony-murder 

48:5 

4:13,17 5:12 
5:18 7:12 
forth 30:6 
fortunately 51:3 
four 33:23 52:22 
fraud 26:18 31:2 

free 10:19 13:22 

55:14 

freely 32:22 
frequently 

entry 25:24 
enumerated 

27:24 

equally 27:7 

35:8,12 

especially 29:22 

51:7 

2:5,8 

20:20 
et 20:23 
events 54:24 
eventually 48:15 
everybody 21:3 

30:25 40:6 

evidence 10:19 
10:24 11:2,22 
16:18 18:9 
19:11,15 45:20 
48:10 54:1 
exactly 4:2 
24:23 49:1 
example 7:7 
17:9 22:4 
23:25 30:19 
31:7 33:14 
47:15,22 48:21 
50:2,18 53:8 
53:14 

examples 4:1 

17:11 32:20,23 
45:8 53:5,7 

exceptions 

54:13,19,19 
excuse 48:22 

50:21 

exist 47:18 

existed 46:20 

53:24 

49:25 

existence 44:25 

50:17 51:15 
explain 29:1 

43:8 

explains 23:23 

F

face 19:9 27:5 
40:23 48:4,6
faces 12:1 20:2 
facilitate 28:10

52:6

28:5

facilitating 14:7

fact 7:15 11:10 
11:12,17,21,21
14:23 16:18
17:16 19:9
22:4 23:21
24:11 27:5
28:1 31:10,13
36:15 41:8
43:16 45:11,21
49:6,9 51:11 

factor 23:1 44:2 
factors 54:23
facts 21:15

34:15 54:20

failing 32:5
fails 8:11 51:4 
fair 23:13 36:10 

43:13 

fairly 43:3 
fake 10:10 
falls 53:17 
false 8:22 18:13 
18:15,19 19:1 
23:8 27:6,7 
28:15 

far 5:17 23:21 

23:21 

gives 4:14 10:17 

23:25 

go 10:16,21 11:7 

16:17,22,25
17:10 18:14 
21:8,9 30:15 
33:12 41:1,6
44:25 45:5 
48:1 51:8 
55:14 

Godin 52:4 
goes 7:21 8:6,8 
11:14 13:25 
17:21 19:19 
28:17 36:14 
41:2 45:4 50:2 
going 12:1 13:11 

18:10 19:20 
21:16 23:8 
27:5 34:3 
36:23,23,24
37:19 38:7,10
38:10 41:23 
47:16 48:4,6,9

19:7,22 20:10 
43:23 47:12 
55:9 

government 4:6 
5:15 7:21 9:17 
10:19,25 11:15 
13:22 14:3 
18:1,2,8 19:10 
20:2,6,14 21:1 
23:10 26:12,25
28:8 35:21 
40:22 42:21 
53:7 55:1,5,14
government's 

furthers 23:20 

good 11:25,25

field 35:9 
FIGUEROA 1:4 
figure 47:16 
Finally 55:4 
find 21:16 31:24  Friedman's 44:3 

Friedman 28:13 

28:14 

50:15 

40:20,20 48:4 

finding 18:6 
fire 24:2 
first 8:4,17,18 

8:19 18:14 
19:4 22:9 
27:22 29:1,1 
33:10 36:5 
38:20 39:13 
43:2 44:4,18 
44:20 51:10 
53:7 

five 11:5,6,17,18 
11:21 12:1,6,6 
13:17 

fix-and-focus 

44:19 

FLORES 1:3 
Flores-Figueroa 

3:4 30:20 
flow 22:8,12 
focused 26:9 
follows 3:21 

38:5 

44:20 

fully 24:3 
function 26:11 

55:22 

fundamentally 
44:18 48:17 
51:20 

further 12:22 

55:23 

G

G 3:1 33:15 
gee 37:14
General 1:19
getting 39:11
47:20 48:11
Ginsburg 7:20
8:17,22 9:1,5 
9:12 13:3,16
18:12,18,25
23:6 26:16
27:7 28:12
31:7 34:11

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

5:16 6:9 
great 19:11 

26:12 42:22 
46:9 

9:2 10:23 14:5  help 21:7 38:9 
Heytens 1:18 
23:7 24:23 
53:25 55:13 
2:5 27:15,16 
grammatically 
27:18 28:12,25 
29:15 30:1,8 
31:5,22 32:13 
33:9 34:2,7 
35:18 36:4,13 
37:4 38:12 
39:6,13 40:3 
40:12 41:5,16 
42:6 43:1,7,11 
44:13 45:16 
46:1,15,22 
47:1,6 48:6 
49:16,19 50:10 
52:12 

group 53:21 
guess 6:16 14:14 
21:19,20 25:18 
43:1 46:3,15 
guilty 29:2 45:5 

grievously 43:22 
ground 27:20 
grounds 38:7 

53:11 

45:6 

gun 45:4,4 50:2 
guy 18:22 48:4,9  history 31:24 

highly 49:2 
hires 34:24 

H 

halfway 8:8,15 
happen 10:1 
happened 8:23 

31:9 44:6,7 

happens 28:16 

32:2,10 41:20 
46:7 54:14 

hold 20:10 23:23 

24:4,8,10 
47:24 

holds 22:22 
homicide 50:4 

50:18 

31:3 
hard 11:23 15:3  Honor 44:5 
17:2 42:9 
hook 30:25 
55:20 
hooks 34:4 
house 24:1 

harder 17:14 
harm 31:19,19 
32:5 42:19,21 
46:11 47:7,8 
49:10 50:9,17 
51:2 54:10,16 
harmed 48:14 

48:15 

harms 26:8 

49:21 54:12 
harsh 55:19 
Hayes 41:8,14 

41:17 
hear 3:3 
heard 40:21,21 
held 34:14,19 

32:14,20 46:6 

human 42:15 

50:20 

hundred 14:24 
hurt 43:10 45:3 
hypothetical 
10:17 12:4,6 
35:19 
I

ID 12:25 19:20 

19:21,23 
idea 55:9 
identical 24:16 

24:19 50:9 

identification 
7:25 8:1,8,16 
10:6,7 13:19 
14:14 15:6 
18:13 19:2,10 
19:14 20:11 
21:11 23:8 
24:12,22 25:12 
26:7,14 28:1,3 
28:9 29:4,13 
29:17,19 33:1 
37:11,25 38:22 
45:19 

identifications 

18:19 

identify 29:21 
identifying 10:2 
10:4 15:2,3,7 
47:25 

identities 32:11 
identity 3:22 

9:24 10:21,22 
11:17 12:1,7,8 
12:11 24:20 
25:8,25 26:17 
26:18 30:5,10 
31:1 42:1,4 
45:10 46:11,12 
46:14 48:5 
52:7,10,13,15 
54:17 

45:15 

IDs 19:19 
IGNACIO 1:3 
ignorant 39:25 
iis 31:1 
illustrates 39:21 
immigration 

26:21,23 
impact 32:9 

implausible 

48:16 

44:21 

implies 5:2 
imply 5:13 
important 30:7 

30:14,15 31:13 
38:16,17 48:8 
51:6 

impose 26:7 

31:16,16 

imposes 43:17 
imposing 49:11 
impossible 5:16 
6:9 25:1 53:20 
imprisonment 

inadvertent 

30:21 

38:25 

30:12 

54:25 

inadvertently 

include 23:1 

includes 20:24 
including 24:14 

41:8 

income 47:21 
inconceivable 

increase 31:21 

independent 

indicates 22:11 

indication 7:16 

45:11 

33:11 

49:10 

22:18 

43:21 

29:11,21,25 
30:10 31:11 
35:5 36:17 
42:21 

individuals 12:2 

12:2 32:24 

inevitably 42:15 
infer 12:24 
inference 12:22 
inflict 54:12 
information 

10:3,4 19:23 
47:25 

injury 54:15 
innocent 38:25 

identity-theft 

individual 29:9 

52:5 

inquiry 38:15 
inserted 10:8 
inserting 22:6 
insertion 22:18 
instance 19:4 
insurmountable 

20:3 

intend 7:17 24:5 

42:3 54:12 
intended 30:3 
31:20 55:13 
intending 24:1 

intends 21:13 

42:5 

22:21 

intentionally 
34:24 50:19 
interest 31:23 
interesting 

35:11 

interferes 26:11 
interpretation

5:16 26:10 
41:19 51:12 
55:14 

interrupt 29:10 
interrupting

22:8 

introduced 
10:24,25

involve 32:23 
involved 29:8 
39:9 45:12 

issue 14:22 34:8 

37:5 42:5 
45:13 51:6 
issued 17:19 
issues 53:2 

J

J 1:18 2:5 27:16 
job 24:25 25:23 
John 3:14,16,18
3:19 5:1,2,12
5:13 14:23,24
15:25 16:1,4,5

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

22:16 

Jones 4:9,10,16 
4:19 5:1,3,8,8 
5:13 

Jones's 4:12 

5:10 

judge 28:13,14 

31:20 32:9 
42:18 44:3,20 
judgment 20:9 
32:17 48:12 
52:20 

judicially 32:3 
jurisdictional 

34:4,4 53:8,11 
53:12 

jury 10:17,21 
11:14 12:23 
16:14,18,23,25 
17:4,10,22 
18:6 19:11 

Justice 1:19 3:3 
3:9,25 4:8,18 
4:23 5:4,20 6:1 
6:4,11,20,25 
7:20 8:17,22 
9:1,5,12,25 
10:16,17,20 
11:5,12,23 
12:5,13,16,21 
13:3,11,16,17 
14:12 15:11,18 
15:24 16:7,13 
16:17,24 17:8 
17:21,25 18:12 
18:18,25 21:6 
21:19,24 23:6 
25:6,14,20 
26:16 27:7,13 
27:18 28:12 
29:10,15 30:1 
30:8,23 31:6,7 
31:14,22 32:10 
32:13,25 33:10 
33:21 34:3,11 
35:7,18 36:2,8 
36:18 37:6 

39:5,7,18 40:1 
40:5,19 41:6 
41:12,22 42:7 
43:1,6,9,19 
45:9,23 46:13 
46:16,21,23,24 
47:2,3,4 48:2,7 
49:13,17 50:1 
50:10,25 51:8 
52:9,13,21,25 
53:4 54:3 
55:18,24 

K

K 1:16 2:3,8 3:7 

15:14 52:23

Kennedy 10:16
10:20 11:5,12
12:21 13:11,17
15:24 16:7,13
16:17,25 17:8 
17:21,25 25:6 
25:14 

Kevin 1:16 2:3,8 

3:7 15:14 
52:23 

kill 45:2 50:3 

51:3 

kind 5:18 7:12 

16:6 18:23 
20:2 24:15 
26:8 53:23 
54:14,18 55:10 

kinds 13:23 
19:12 20:4 
25:22 35:16 
54:16 

knew 3:16,18,19 
4:10 5:2,10,14 
5:23 14:22 
15:16 18:2,6 
20:6 22:16,19 
26:14,25 35:13 
46:19 

know 4:3 5:1,6 

7:25 11:10 
12:7,18 13:5,6 

13:8 14:4,15 
15:18,20,21,22 
15:24 16:4,5 
16:11,21 17:4 
17:5,15 18:8 
18:10,17 20:8 
21:11 24:2 
28:19 31:17 
32:10 33:8,12 
33:25 34:16,21 
36:21 37:14 
39:7,25 40:18 
43:10 45:11 
47:18,19 51:22 
51:22 

knowing 49:14 
knowingly 3:12 
3:15 4:18,24 
4:24 5:1,8,12 
5:21 6:16 7:9 
7:23 10:2 
20:22 21:1,7 
21:10 22:14 
25:7 30:5 33:3 
33:3,13,22,25 
34:12,24 36:25 
37:9,16 38:4 
38:19,20 40:9 
knowledge 5:19 

7:13 8:14 
10:13,23,25 
14:4,22 17:23 
19:16 20:3,24 
21:4 23:4 
34:15 53:5,9 
53:21 

known 30:10 
31:19 32:24 
34:18 54:20 
knows 3:13 7:6 
12:8,22 14:1 
14:17 16:1,14 
18:3 19:19 
24:22 31:18 
35:21 39:2 
40:6 45:20 
47:17 

L 

LaFave 23:22 
Laughter 17:1 

41:15 47:5 
54:6 

law 20:5,12 39:3 
44:23 50:12,14
50:15,23 54:9 
lawful 7:24 8:6 

21:22 22:4 
28:4 37:23 
38:5,21,23
lawmaking

43:15

lays 21:15
lead 7:16 17:15 
leave 17:22
leaving 32:8
left 4:21,23 33:6 
legal 50:21 
legislation 46:8
legislative 31:24
32:2,7 41:20 
46:7 55:20

lenity 41:1,6,10

41:11,18 42:10 
42:14,20,23
43:5,13 51:13 
55:4,11,22

let's 37:7 41:2 

46:24

level 50:22 51:2 
levels 50:16
liability 27:21

29:3 34:1
liable 20:10

22:22 23:24
24:5,8,9,11

lies 42:2
light 8:12 49:20 
likewise 23:3
limited 42:23
line 37:19,21,22

44:12,16,17

lines 17:3
Liparota 41:18
lists 32:15 

little 4:14
live 8:24 9:10 

19:3 25:17
28:17,18
living 25:13
logic 37:24
look 20:17 25:3 
25:4 37:2 38:2 
48:3 50:12,18
52:16 54:4
looking 19:19

52:18

looks 10:6,6

21:14 50:15,15
50:16,17 55:2 
lot 14:11 17:11 

21:25

Lots 23:15
lower 34:19

M

made-up 19:5
making 11:23

man 5:21,22,23

18:19

6:13

mandatory 3:23

9:23 28:23
31:16,16 42:1 
42:14 43:17
48:22,23,24
55:17,17

mandatory-m... 

manner 39:2

42:12

45:18

manufacture
20:22 21:7

manufactured

21:2

matter 1:12 6:23 

21:12 25:18
39:19 50:8
51:10 55:20
56:2

Md 1:16
mean 5:9 6:12 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

misidentificati...  narrowly 23:18 

misunderstan...  naturally 5:13 

obtained 19:14 
obvious 37:22 
outfits 18:18 
obviously 19:19  outset 30:16


28:18 

23:20 

natural 22:8 
38:8 52:1 

7:12 

nature 20:7 
44:19 54:8 
nearly 53:20 
necessarily 4:3 

5:9 39:10 

32:16 

occur 51:3 
occurred 52:15 
occurs 31:19 
odd 33:1 
offense 7:5 

26:20 

offenses 9:21 

6:15 13:9,16 
16:5 17:25 
21:8 22:16 
25:15,17 29:12

31:15 33:1,7 
34:2 36:8 37:7 
40:24 46:20 
49:15 50:3 
51:16 

37:11 

mistakenly 

42:19 

12:4 

misuse 26:21 
misused 23:10 

47:15 

meaning 22:20  model 40:7 
means 5:22 7:25  modifier 21:22 
8:1,8,15 15:5  modify 33:3,25 
20:25 21:11,24  moral 50:12,18 
22:9 24:21 
25:12 26:14 
28:1,2,9 29:4 
29:16,19,20

33:1 37:25 
45:19 

34:12,14 35:9 
35:10,19,20 
53:7 

mother 3:15,20 

50:22 

outside 42:17,20 
overconstruing 

55:17 

owner 34:17,18 
35:14 51:22,23 

ownership 4:3 

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 33:15 
paid 47:22 
pair 3:15 22:15 
papers 8:18 
18:14 19:2 
parallel 4:20
parenthetical
22:18 37:23

part 4:22 38:16 

53:20

particular 15:4

15:8 42:24
45:10

particularly

4:16 5:18 11:3 
11:9 19:12
20:4 42:13
55:19

pass 6:14 
pause 22:10 
peculiar 33:6 
Penal 40:7
penalties 24:15

penalty 27:5 

50:8

45:25

people 6:10 9:9 
11:6,18,19,21
12:7 13:19,21 
19:1 22:22
23:8 24:16,16 
24:18 27:2
28:15 32:11,11
32:16,17 42:3 
42:4,16 43:13 

neighbor 35:22 
Morissette 34:9  neither 45:2,3 

need 34:20 35:4  Oh 5:7,7 

46:8 48:18 

Okay 12:10 
old 35:6 
olds 54:4 
omit 40:9

never 51:14 
night 5:6 
omitting 23:19 
nine 17:17 32:15  once 4:24 37:18 

22:17 

mother's 3:17 

3:19 22:15 

motion 11:16,16 
motivating 

48:18 

mug 5:20 6:13 
mugged 5:21,22 
mugger 5:20,23 
murder 45:6,8 
50:2,7,23,23 
54:13 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
name 8:20,20 

9:7 12:25 13:4 
13:7,13,18 
14:13,13,14,15 
14:17,18 15:7 
15:12,13,16 
16:21,22,24 
17:5,6,6,11,16 
18:15 29:20 
named 16:12 
names 15:9 

36:16 

32:20,23 
nominalist 

24:14 

non-existent 

20:1 

normally 6:16 

31:15,15 40:25 

number 8:24 
9:13 12:19 
13:1,13 15:7 
17:13,14 19:3 
19:5,5,11 
21:25 23:10 
24:25 27:8 
28:16,21,22 
29:20 31:3,9 
31:12 44:6,7 
44:21 46:10 
47:9,14,17 
52:5,6 

numbers 9:18 
11:11 13:19 
17:18 36:16 

O
O 2:1 3:1 
object 8:15 21:5 

22:8 

narrow 36:24 

objection 44:24 

38:18,20,23 

ones 25:4 
open 25:10 
operation 18:21


18:23 

operations 

18:12 

operative 37:25 
opinion 34:10 

41:8 

opponent 30:2 
opposite 43:23 
oral 1:12 2:2 3:7 

27:16 

order 24:25 
ordinance 6:14 
ordinarily 7:3 
10:12,14,14

23:15,16,18 
25:16 

ordinary 6:10 
6:21,24 12:20

54:10 

ought 15:1 

16:21 26:12 
outcome 25:18 
outcome-dete... 

18:11 

outfit 18:14 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

meant 38:8 
measure 49:4 
members 31:24 

32:3,16


mens 7:4,18 

14:6 23:1,3,17 
23:19 45:13 
53:13 54:25 
mental 36:12 
mentioned 

54:22 

mere 27:5 
meted 24:15 
method-statute 

48:22 

million 17:19 
mind 36:22 

39:12,15,16,17

44:9 54:2 
minds 43:23 
minimum 43:17 
48:22,24 55:18


minimums 

42:15 

minor 25:25 
minutes 52:22 
misappropriate 

30:9 

44:21,25 46:10 
46:12 47:9 
48:12 50:19 
52:5,15 

permission 

22:15 

perpetrated 

perpetrator 

37:12 

47:24 

13:13 33:19 

phone 16:2 
photograph 

13:7 

phrase 8:8,15 

21:5 22:7 
picked 31:3 
picture 10:8,9 
12:11,19 13:1 
13:5 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

precisely 26:11 

protect 23:9 

40:10 41:17,24  protecting 14:10 
45:1 50:22 
precondition 

protection 14:8 

23:21 

preconditions 

29:3 

27:21 

predicate 3:24 

9:21 26:20 
27:23 28:6 
30:17,19,20 
premeditated 

14:3,25 16:8 
17:3 22:2 
25:11 28:7,11 
29:4 30:2 
31:23 34:21 
35:3,5 36:17 
44:3 45:17 
52:1,3,14,19 
questions 15:8 

27:2 

protective 26:11 
prove 20:6 

26:25 

16:6 47:20 
53:2 55:23 

provide 45:20 
provides 19:15 
providing 43:13 
quick 53:2

proving 20:3 
provision 20:21  quite 17:7

R

20:24 21:10 
23:3 55:3 

R 3:1
raise 8:10 13:23 

14:25 16:6
raised 43:6 
raises 30:1 
rationally 48:8 
rea 7:4,18 14:6 
23:2,3,17,19
45:13 53:13
54:25 

reach 32:18 
reached 43:23 
read 7:13 21:14 

22:16 23:16
25:5 29:12
44:4 

person 3:13 4:2  pictures 13:10 

12:2 

50:7 

27:19 

48:25 

19:10 

49:5,23 

point 23:13 

presumably 

present 10:19 

presence 48:20 

24:13 36:3,14 
39:1,14 51:8 

points 20:14 
50:25 54:14 

preposition 6:3 
prescribed 

place 10:8 18:24 
places 21:25 
play 41:18 
please 3:10 

policy 20:9 25:2  presume 25:17 
pretending 26:1 
pretty 11:25,25 

4:10 5:9 7:9,23  pieces 39:23 
8:9,16,24 10:3

10:5,9,22 11:9

12:6,9,19,24 
14:16,19 15:8 
15:17,19,22

16:12 17:5,6 
19:3,21,24

20:1,22 23:4 
23:10 25:8,9 
25:13,16,17 
26:4,7,13 28:2

28:3,11,17,17 
28:19 29:5,12 
29:12,13,23 
previous 32:19 
30:9 31:17 
principal 14:5 
34:25 35:23 
principle 3:21 
36:11 37:20 
positioned 47:23  private 35:14 
38:1,5 39:9 
possess 37:15 
42:17,19 45:12

45:21 47:13,15  possesses 3:12 
47:17,22 48:11

48:11,14 49:11  possessing 3:14 
possession 16:19 
50:5 51:1,3 
possessive 6:7 
persons 10:8 
possibility 37:16  problems 47:18  p.m 56:1 
person's 19:22 
Q 

37:3 39:19,20 
44:21 55:8 
portion 32:14 
position 8:3,4,4 
21:4 37:1,8,8 
38:14 47:23 

30:5 31:9 48:3  possible 17:17 

40:11 47:14 
52:9 55:16 

probably 11:22 

31:23 34:4 

37:13 

33:6 

provisions 20:13


20:18 22:24 
punishing 42:3

punishment 
9:22 22:25 
30:4,18 43:14 
48:13,25 49:4

49:12,23 50:13 
54:11 

punishments 

24:18,19 

purpose 14:7 
23:20 38:15 
41:20 43:4 
45:15


probative 31:25  put 4:24 22:4,19 
problem 31:1,21 

perspective 31:6 
31:8,11 52:17 
52:17 

37:17,18 

possibly 17:7 

37:14 

45:20 

powerful 19:15 

Petitioner 1:5 
1:17 2:4,9 3:8 
24:10,24 40:17  powers 43:15 
47:11 48:20 
52:2,6,24 
Petitioner's 

53:23 55:20 
precise 44:24 

practical 47:12 

process 55:21 
proper 41:19 
43:15 51:12 

property 34:17 

34:21 35:21 
prosecutions 

14:7 

prosecutor 

28:13,20,23 
44:4 

purposes 43:12 
push 7:1


puts 11:17 

22:20 33:2 
40:8 42:17 

reader 22:10,11
reading 9:2 
real 10:3,5,7,8 
10:22 11:6,18 
12:2,7,8 13:19 
18:24 19:22
25:8 26:8
28:22 29:8,14 
29:24 31:9,11
32:6 37:24,24 
44:7 48:14,20
49:5,6,21 51:1 
51:22,23
question 4:4 9:7  really 10:10
23:8 25:18
30:4 31:10

qualified 9:23
qualify 8:18 
quantity 20:15 
20:18 21:17 
22:24 25:4 

10:2 13:9,12 
13:12,25 14:2 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

35:15,20 36:11  relative 50:12 

reason 9:17 29:1 
29:9 30:14,15 
35:7 44:16 
46:8 47:12 
52:19 54:16 
55:15 

reasonable 17:4 

50:16 

relied 35:10 
relies 54:20 
rely 53:25 
remainder 

27:12 

Respondent 

1:20 2:6 27:17 

responding 

50:13 

responses 33:9 
return 22:3 
review 46:6 
reviewed 53:16 
revisit 41:13 

remember 8:19 
rename 43:9 
repeat 5:4 33:13  right 6:22 8:21 
repeatedly 46:9 
9:4 14:2 21:23 
28:13,20,24 
43:7 48:4 54:5 
54:7 

repeats 33:17 
reply 33:15,16 
report 32:14,17 

51:11 

39:11 

reasonably 

12:24 

reasons 8:12 
24:13 44:17 
53:24 

REBUTTAL 

2:7 52:23 

received 9:21 

32:19 

receiving 48:13 
receptive 55:16 
reckless 10:4 
39:24 50:6 

32:21 46:7 
47:1,2,9 

reports 47:19 
reproduced 

29:17 

reproduces 

33:16 

recklessly 40:2,8  require 29:23 
recklessness 

53:13 

55:21 

recognized 7:12 

10:12,14 14:22  requirement 
7:13,18 8:14 
10:13 20:25 
21:4 23:2,4 
33:13 53:10 
54:25 

reconceptuali... 

43:4 

record 18:16,20 
reducing 14:6 
refer 26:20 
37:17 38:4 
52:1,4,14 
referred 7:9 
refers 37:9 

48:21 

reflect 10:22 
48:13 49:5 
reflects 22:6 
regard 39:17 
regardless 55:10 
regime 32:19 
registration 9:9 

13:6 52:6 

relates 29:16 
relations 3:24 

requirements 
14:6 23:17,19 
33:18 53:6 
requires 20:5 

reserve 27:12 

51:21 

54:11 

reserved 54:15 
resist 11:15 
resolution 54:11 
resolve 40:16,17 

41:3 42:8 

resolves 37:5 
respect 20:13,14 

23:4 43:15 
53:14 54:7 
55:4,6 

23:13 25:10,15 
26:6,19 27:10 
27:14 52:22,23 
52:25 54:5,7 

S
S 2:1 3:1 
satisfied 15:10
satisfy 10:13
saying 3:16,19

5:17 30:25
33:24 36:19
44:5 46:15
47:6

says 5:5 6:12 

15:6 18:2
20:21 22:14
25:16 28:23
32:25 34:12,24
49:3 52:10,13
52:13 53:16
Scalia 4:18,23
11:23 12:5,13
12:16 41:6
43:9 46:21,23
46:24 47:2,4
49:13,17

scenario 16:6
school 20:15,18

22:3 23:2,5
25:5

scissors 3:15,17
3:18,20 22:15 
22:17

second 9:6 22:10 

27:24 29:9
39:4 44:8

section 27:21
security 8:23 9:8 

13:9 17:18,18
26:24 27:8
28:16 47:14,17
47:20 52:5

see 20:20 34:6 

51:6

selling 20:15
sense 18:25 19:8 

19:25 21:9,10 
33:19 45:22 
49:17,22 

sentence 3:23 
9:24 22:9,12
22:14 24:23 
31:21 42:18 
55:17 

sentences 31:17 
32:4,19 42:12 

sentencing

20:13 31:15 
54:21 55:3 

separate 27:23 

36:9 54:24 

separately 21:17 
serious 26:3 
37:16 45:7,7
54:15,17

served 55:22 
serves 14:7 
set 37:23 
sets 22:25 24:1 

30:9 

settled 25:13 
severe 30:4 

45:24 

short 32:19 
show 9:20,22

14:1,3 15:15 
16:1 21:1 
26:13 28:8 
54:1 

showing 10:25 
18:10 47:19 

shown 18:2 
shows 10:24 

side 38:24 39:20 

26:14 

50:14 

sides 43:24 
significance
36:5 38:19 

significant 32:1 
39:10,10 43:3 
49:2 

simply 3:16 5:17 

rise 4:14 
risking 27:4 
rob 24:1 
robbery 24:9 

45:6 

ROBERTS 3:3 
4:8 21:6,19,24 
27:13 41:12 
45:9 48:2 52:9 
52:21 55:24 
rule 41:1,5,10 

41:11,18 42:10 
42:13,20,22 
43:4,10,11,12 
44:25 51:13 
55:4,11,22 

Russell 1:16 2:3 
2:8 3:6,7,9 4:5 
4:13,21,25 
5:11,24 6:2,7 
6:18,22 7:2,20 
8:2,21,25 9:4 
9:11,16 10:12 
10:18 11:1,8 
11:20 12:3,10 
12:14,17,23 
13:8,14,20 
14:21 15:14,15 
15:20 16:3,9 
16:16,20 17:2 
17:10,24 18:5 
18:16,20 19:7 
21:12,23 22:2 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

specified 37:10 
split 43:21 51:15  steal 35:8 

41:9,19 55:6 

10:3 17:12,14 
22:5 24:13 
36:20 37:2,9 
39:25 53:23 
situations 20:5 

46:18 

small 42:21,23 
Smith 15:25 

16:1,4,5,12,15 
Social 8:23 9:8 

51:16 

standard 40:7 
standing 38:13 
standpoint 

35:19 50:21 
start 24:3 37:7 

44:14 

state 36:12 

5:25 32:8 
48:21 

39:12,15,17 
44:9 54:1 

13:9 17:18 
26:24 27:8 
28:15 47:14,17  statement 4:25 
47:20 52:5 
Solicitor 1:18 
solve 40:10 
somebody 3:11 
4:11 5:5 9:19 
12:1,11,25 
13:1,1,2,13 
14:1 15:2 
16:21 17:4,16 
19:17 20:11 
23:25 24:12,22 
24:24 26:1,15 
26:22 27:3 
30:4,5 31:4 

states 1:1,7,13 
3:5 16:2 34:9 
34:11,14,22 
35:14 39:15 
53:10 

statistics 46:9,17 
statute 3:22 5:19 

stealing 5:14 
32:11 35:22 
steals 30:4,5 
step 44:22 
Stevens 25:20 

30:1,8,23 
32:10,14 35:7 
35:18 36:2,8 
45:23 46:13,16 
47:3 

stole 4:9,11,15 

4:19 5:1,8,9,12 

stolen 5:6,7 
stop 21:25 
stops 8:15 
street 5:6 
strict 34:1 
strictly 20:10 
22:22 23:24 
24:8,9,11 
strike 44:21 
strong 35:25 
42:13 43:25 
44:11 

51:13 

sufficient 11:15 

13:15 34:15 
48:13 

sufficiently 

16:20 

supporting 37:7 
supports 35:10 

38:14 

suppose 4:9 6:12 

10:5 11:5 
13:12 15:25 
17:25 39:12 
42:9 

supposed 33:3 

36:11 

Supreme 1:1,13 
sure 10:9 14:15 
34:2 36:4 39:8 
surprising 40:21 
suspect 24:9 
system 19:17,18 

54:12 
T

T 2:1,1
tack 46:4
take 14:1 23:11 
28:15 31:9,20
32:5,9 34:23 
36:24 49:8

taken 49:11,21
takes 48:19
51:14 54:9

talk 45:10 46:14 
talking 15:9
17:13 29:24
30:2 47:7,8

talks 46:7
taxes 47:22
tell 22:10 34:6 
36:19,19,21
40:19 48:3

tend 13:14 35:25 
tends 11:22 25:2 

54:15,22

term 30:20 40:6 

terminate 38:14 
terms 36:12 
testified 11:13 

18:7 

testifies 11:10 
text 8:11 33:18 
36:20 37:2,4 
38:3,13 41:9 
41:20 53:2 
55:6 

textual 7:16 

8:14 

Textually 8:13 
Thank 27:13 
52:20,21,25 
55:24 

theft 3:22 25:25 

42:1,4 45:10 
46:11,12,14 
51:21,21,23 
52:8,10,13,14 
52:15 54:17 
theory 25:21 
thief 9:24 24:21 

52:2 

thing 4:3 12:15 

32:1 35:17 
36:9 39:7 
40:24 42:7 
48:8 

things 38:17,18

44:14,22 50:16 

think 4:1,5,13

4:15,18,25
5:11,21,22,24
6:2,7,10,23 7:2 
8:11 10:18,18
11:1,3,8,20
12:18,23 13:14 
13:21 14:5,21
15:8 16:3,3,9
16:10,16 17:3 
17:4,12,13
18:3,5,23 20:1 
21:13 22:5,9
22:11,13,18 
23:13 25:10,16 

someplace 16:2 
sophisticated 

18:21,23 

sorry 4:21 12:3 
sort 20:13 32:18 
sorts 49:8 
source 25:23 
Souter 16:24 

37:6 39:5,7,18 
40:1,5,19 

6:12,12 7:3,8 
9:5 14:10 15:1 
15:6,10,10 
20:17 21:14,14 
strongest 14:5 
21:21 22:1,21 
strongly 5:2 
23:12,14 25:5 
25:15 26:10,23  subject 30:18 
29:3 32:4 33:2 
33:8,17,18 
34:8,9,12,20 
34:23,23 35:25 
36:3,4,16 37:2 
37:5,24 40:13 
40:15,23 43:16 
43:22 44:1,19 
46:21,23 48:18  subset 42:23 
48:19,23,24 
50:5 51:13,16 
52:10 55:1 

55:25 56:2 
subsection 

subjected 30:20 
subjects 43:14 
submitted 16:13 

20:20 21:15,17 
22:24 23:2 
27:24 

substance 20:23 

substantial 9:21 

21:3,5 

special 53:18 
specialize 18:19 
specific 15:16 
16:12 17:5,6 
29:21 32:15,20  statutes 14:11 
23:15,17 25:3 
36:17 
25:4 33:5,11 
33:13 53:5 
54:22 

specifically 
27:24 28:9 
35:4 39:2 
49:24 

statutory 38:13 

18:9 27:2,5 
substantially 

24:17,18 27:4 

suffered 32:6 

47:7 

suffice 15:25 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

26:10 29:15 
30:3,13,23 
31:9,12,14,25 
32:12 33:4 
35:24 36:5 
38:12,17,19 
39:6,6,13,19 
40:14 41:25 
42:6 43:3,8,16 
43:20 44:10,16 
44:22 45:16,17 
47:12 48:7,8 
48:17 49:2,3 
49:20,25 51:5 
51:19,23 52:2 
52:14,16,17 
54:16 55:5,10 

thinks 20:25 

35:22 

third 28:2 
thought 6:5 
11:24 12:5 
30:24 49:3 
50:3 54:17 
thoughtfully 

6:25 

three 7:22 8:10 
27:21 37:10,17 
37:18 51:9 

threshold 51:10 
throw 42:15 
throwing 42:19 

42:22 

tie 41:2,6 
time 8:19 9:6 

18:14,15 27:12 
41:13 44:4 
45:13 51:17 
times 19:2,3 
TOBY 1:18 2:5 

27:16 

tradition 8:12 
trafficking 35:1 
transfer 37:15 
transferring 

3:14 

transfers 3:12 

37:13 

transitive 22:7 
transporting 

7:10 

treat 55:9 
treated 35:17 
53:19 55:2 
treating 36:9 
treatise 23:22 
treatment 54:14 
treats 50:23 
tries 51:3 
trigger 41:10 
51:13 55:11 
triggers 43:17 
trots 46:9 
trotting 46:17 
troubles 35:17 
true 23:19 26:6 

35:24 40:3 
41:22 54:8 

try 46:4 
trying 6:25 

19:25 21:20 
42:10 

U 

ultimate 17:3 
ultimately 25:17 
unambiguous

unambiguously

unauthorizedly

6:5,6,8

37:5 

19:18 

uncommon 

14:17 15:12 
44:23 

underlying

26:20 28:6,10
36:7 39:16 
49:7 52:7 
54:24 

undermine 

11:22 

understand 6:10 

8:2 13:21 
25:21 29:22 
31:5 36:18 
45:17 

usage 3:11 4:2 

victim-focused

5:17 6:8,10,21 
6:24 8:12 
21:13 

USC 21:18 
use 9:7 13:7 

19:21 25:22 
28:1,2 31:6 
34:13 37:15 
38:21 42:10 
45:15 

uses 3:12 14:13 

15:25 19:18 
21:11 25:7 
26:22 28:10
34:24 37:13
45:19

U.S.C 27:21
29:18 33:16

V 

20:7 23:17
54:8

Video 7:8
view 9:19 24:23 
25:14,15 36:25 
55:10

violated 9:2,3
violation 10:11
14:20 15:14
violations 29:6
virtually 14:18
visual 7:10,10
vote 11:24
W

want 16:7 25:23 
25:23 44:11,15
44:16 50:17
wanted 38:9
43:21 45:24

wants 7:7 32:18 

v 1:6 34:9,11 
value 34:13 
verbs 8:5 22:7 
warning 43:13
versus 3:4 14:22  Washington 1:9

45:2,3

21:14 

1:19

victim 14:8 23:9  wasn't 31:19

23:21 29:8 
36:14 46:19 
47:23 49:5,6 
49:10,14,25 
50:6 51:1,2 
53:17,22 

understanding 

understood 5:13 

7:21 

turn 49:23 
turned 3:17,18 
4:11 9:8,13,18 
21:2 
turns 14:24 19:2  unduly 26:10 
19:3 20:11 
28:21,22 

undo 55:20 

22:6 

53:19 

victimization 

two 9:9,23 24:16 
25:21 28:15,22 
30:22 31:2 
33:9 34:7 
35:12,15 38:17 
38:18 39:5,8 
39:14 43:12 
44:7,9,25 
unknown 14:19 
48:25 49:1,1,6  unlawful 20:21 
49:14 50:15,19 
52:5,7 53:7 
two-year 3:23 

uniformly 34:19 
United 1:1,7,13 
3:5 16:2 34:9 
34:11,13,22 
35:14 53:10 
victimized 46:10 
unknowing 27:2  victimless 29:6 
46:14 
victims 14:10 
unknowingly 
23:14 26:8 
27:3,3 32:6 
36:22,23 38:9 
47:9 48:20 
49:21 52:7,11 
54:10 

20:22 24:2 
45:1 

24:24 

unusual 12:14 

9:15 28:21 
39:11 42:1 

52:4 

unusually 44:1 
urging 23:11 

way 6:14 7:22 
14:7 19:13,14
20:3,25 21:14 
25:21 26:13
31:11 33:12
35:23 40:15,18
40:20 41:1,4
42:8,10 49:15 
49:18,20 51:9 
54:23

ways 39:19
40:13 55:8
Wednesday

well-reasoned

1:10

43:24

went 18:13
victim's 52:16 
51:24,25
victim-centered  we've 53:24
whatsoever

23:11 50:5 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

08-108 1:6 3:4 

1

10 30:21 48:3,5 

48:7,10,11 
1028A(a)(1)

27:22 29:24 
1028(a)(1) 29:7
1028(d)(7) 29:19 
11:12 1:14 3:2 
12:09 56:1 
15-year 54:4 
18 27:21 29:18 

33:16 34:25
35:5

47:10 

Willful 10:13 
willfully 39:24 
win 37:3 38:7,7 
wins 51:17 
word 33:2 40:8 
words 7:22 

29:23 36:10 

work 18:13 
world 18:24 

44:11 

worry 36:23,24 
worth 39:5,8 
wouldn't 4:2 
12:24 15:21 
38:8 40:9 

write 22:21 25:3 

33:2 54:22 
writes 22:23 

25:4 

2
2009 1:10
21 21:17 54:4 
23A 33:15
25 1:10
27 2:6

3

3/3 43:20,21

4
4a 29:18 
400 17:19
48 21:18 
5

written 33:11 

40:13,15 
wrong 31:18,18 
38:10,11 50:22  3 2:4
51:20,24,25 
wrongly 42:22 

X 

x 1:2,8 
X-Citement 7:8 

Y 

9 

922(q)(2)(A)

Yeah 30:23 
years 9:23 28:22  52 2:9 
30:21,22 31:2 
35:6 39:5,9 
44:7 48:3,5,7 
48:10,11,25 
49:1,1,6,14 
yellow 20:19 
yesterday 41:17 

33:16

Z 

zone 20:15,18 
22:3 23:3,5 
25:5 

0 

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

