Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
DAVID BOBBY, WARDEN, 
:
            
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 08-598 
                       
MICHAEL BIES. 
: 
                   
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, April 27, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 11:02 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
BENJAMIN C. MIZER, ESQ., Solicitor General, Columbus,

 Ohio; on behalf of the Petitioner. 

JOHN H. BLUME, ESQ., Ithaca, N.Y.; on  behalf of the

 Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
BENJAMIN C. MIZER, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


JOHN H. BLUME, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

19


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

BENJAMIN C. MIZER, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

42


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (11:02 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument next in Bobby versus Bies.  Mr. Mizer.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN C. MIZER

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. MIZER:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 Three separate lines of double jeopardy 

analysis lead independently to the conclusion that the 
Double Jeopardy Clause commits the Ohio postconviction 
court to hold a hearing to determine whether Mr. Bies is 
mentally retarded for purposes of Atkins.

 First, there has been no acquittal in this 

case.  Second, there is no successive jeopardy; and, 
third, even if collateral estoppel analysis applies 
under Ashe versus Swenson, the Atkins issue has not 
actually and necessarily been decided.  Each of these 
factors shows that the Ohio court's decision to go 
forward with the Atkins hearing was reasonable, and this 
Court therefore should, consistent with AEDPA, give the 
Ohio courts their first chance to adjudicate Mr. Bies's 
Atkins claim.

 Much of the dispute in this case centers on 

the parties' disagreement over the meaning of Ashe 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

versus Swenson and its application.  But Mr. Bies cannot 
benefit from Ashe because Ashe -- the Ashe collateral 
estoppel rule only operates to benefit defendants who 
have in hand an earlier acquittal, and Mr. Bies has 
never been acquitted of the death penalty in any sense 
of the word.

 This Court, beginning in Bullington and 

extending through Sattazahn, has defined an "acquittal" 
in a death penalty context as a finding by the sentencer 
that the death -- that the sentence of death is 
warranted in a particular case.  And the -- the jury and 
the trial judge in this case agreed that death was 
warranted, and, in fact, the Ohio Supreme Court and 
every reviewing court has agreed that death was 
warranted.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But they all agreed that 

he was mentally retarded, and that was a mitigator. 
They all agreed to that.  But assuming you're right on 
issue preclusion, what more -- the State says, yes, we 
recognize "mental retardation" means you can't 
administer the death penalty.  But what would the State 
show at an Atkins hearing that is not already in the 
record of this case?  I mean why do it again?

 MR. MIZER:  The reason to do it again, Your 
Honor, is because the -- the standard set forth by the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Ohio Supreme Court in Lott when it was implementing this 
Court's decision in Atkins contained three definitions 
-- three elements of the Atkins definition, of the 
definition of "mental retardation."  And those three 
elements were not carefully demonstrated by Dr. Winter. 
And, in fact, the -- the record here -- the Ohio 
post-conviction court has concluded -- doesn't suffice 
to make the post-Atkins Lott determination.

 The -- at pages 101a to 104a of the Petition 

Appendix, the State postconviction court looks at all 
the evidence, including Dr. Winter's testimony, and says 
that there needs to be a hearing where experts will be 
called in order to determine whether Mr. Bies not only 
suffers from significant intellectual limitations, which 
includes IQ, but there is conflicting IQ evidence in the 
record.  It also includes findings that he suffers from 
substantial limitations in adaptive skills, the skills 
needed for daily life, which Dr. Winter never 
specifically spoke about.  She spoke only about IQ when 
she was talking about mental retardation.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I don't want to take you 

too far outside the record, and you can come back to it, 
but I -- I just have this question.  Suppose that in a 
jury case the jury -- pre-Atkins, the jury says, we find 
that the defendant has a 65 IQ, but that in light of the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

heinous nature of the offense, this is not a mitigating 
factor, and that he should be sentenced to death.

 In a subsequent Atkins proceeding, can the 

jury finding with reference to the IQ be conclusive?

 MR. MIZER:  No, it cannot.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Or must that be reopened?
 MR. MIZER:  It can, Your Honor, for two 

reasons.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  It can -- can be reopened?
 MR. MIZER:  It can be.  Yes, I'm sorry.  It 

can't be preclusive.  It can be reopened for two 
reasons, one relating to the definition of "mental 
retardation" post-Atkins and the other relating to the 
different issues.

 First, with respect to the definition, the 

Ohio Supreme Court has made clear in Lott that IQ is not 
enough to determine mental retardation.  In fact, the --
the clinicians and the American Association of Mental 
Retardation say that IQ is not enough, particularly in a 
borderline case where IQ is close to the line.  And 
there you need to look very carefully at adaptive 
skills.  Moreover --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But could the -- could the 
defendant argue the -- that -- the accused argue that at 
least as to the finding of the 65 IQ, that that is a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

given.

 MR. MIZER:  And --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And that that issue, i.e., 

the level of IQ, cannot be relitigated, the number?

 MR. MIZER:  And the answer to that is no, 
Your Honor, for issue preclusive purposes, because the 
issue is completely different in the mitigation context 
from the post-Atkins context.  And I think that 
difference is highlighted by the difference between 
Penry and Atkins.  Pre-Atkins what the sentencer was 
talking about, the jury and then the Ohio Supreme Court 
when it affirmed, was what this Court told it to talk 
about in Penry.

 It was talking about mental retardation as a 

mitigating factor, and the State of Ohio and the Ohio 
courts had to know the definition of "mental 
retardation" pre-Atkins.  In fact, I think if there had 
been a definition and if the courts had excluded 
evidence from the jury that didn't rise to a certain 
level of severity, then we would have run into a -- a 
post -- a Penry and Tennard problem.  And so all of the 
evidence was allowed in, and it was treated as 
mitigating.

 And so what the Ohio Supreme Court was doing 

was what Penry told it to do:  Considering mitigating 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

evidence of mental retardation.  But post-Atkins the 
inquiries are different, because Atkins effectively 
constitutionalized a clinical judgment in making -- in 
defining a categorical bar on executing the mentally 
retarded.

 And so post-Atkins it is necessary to be 

very careful about the clinical judgment, and this 
record does not suffice for that clinical judgment.  And 
I think it -- think it does not behoove either party to 
suggest that the record --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, when you say "the 

clinical judgment," you mean the specific finding of a 
65 IQ?

 MR. MIZER:  The -- the clinical judgment 

that I refer to, Your Honor, is that required by -- by 
Lott.  It looks not only at IQ, but also at the adaptive 
skills limitation.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  I grant you that 

under -- under the earlier case the 65 IQ was not 
dispositive, and I mean that was the -- the case in 
Justice Kennedy's hypothetical.  But it was necessary 
under the early case to come to a determination of what 
the IQ was, even though that determination was not 
dispositive of the result.  And because it was necessary 
to come to a determination, why shouldn't there be a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

preclusion?

 MR. MIZER:  Because, Your Honor, I think 

there are two different meanings of "necessary."  It was 
-- it was necessary in the sense that it had to be done, 
but it wasn't necessary in the issue preclusive offense 
because it -- it was --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  It wasn't necessary to 

reach that particular -- in other words, the 
determination of 65 was not necessary to reach the 
conclusion that they reached.

 MR. MIZER:  Correct.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  And you -- you are saying 
the very fact that it was not dispositive of the result 
means that it cannot be preclusive now?

 MR. MIZER:  That's correct, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.
 MR. MIZER:  And -- and --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  May I ask how it worked 
pre-Atkins when mental retardation was a mitigator?  We 
are told that the appellate courts independently 
reviewed.  We have a finding at the trial level that, 
yes, there is a mitigator mental retardation, but it 
doesn't overcome the aggravator, so the jury comes in 
with a death sentence.

 Then at the appellate level, is there a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

continuing adversary contest about whether retardation 
exists and, therefore, is a mitigator, or is it just the 
-- the judge, the appellate judge, looking over the 
record that has been made at trial?

 MR. MIZER:  The -- the appellate courts 
engaged in a de novo record and new -- new evidence 
doesn't come into the record on direct review.  But 
there is still argument -- the parties are still in an 
adversarial posture.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So -- so that the 

prosecutor could still argue that was unreasonable for 
them to find mental retardation, so there shouldn't be 
that mitigator?

 MR. MIZER:  That's correct, Your Honor, but 
there wasn't at the time a -- a great deal of incentive 
to litigate that question because the Ohio Supreme Court 
had said that mental retardation only merited some 
weight in mitigation.  And, in fact, the -- the 
appellate briefs on direct review are in the Joint 
Appendix and -- excerpts of those briefs.  And Mr. Bies 
himself on direct review didn't vigorously argue his 
mental retardation evidence.  In fact, he said that the, 
"arguably," in his words, "the most persuasive 
mitigating evidence" was his lack of a prior record and 
his lack of prior violent history. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

And so none of the parties thought that 

mental retardation in 1992 through 1996 was very 
persuasive, because the courts didn't treat it and the 
jury didn't treat it as very persuasive, Perhaps for the 
reasons that this Court underscored in Atkins, where the 
Court said that, as it had said in Penry, that mental 
retardation evidence presented to a jury in mitigation 
could be a two-edged sword, because some jurors might 
perceive and the prosecutor might argue that that 
evidence went to future dangerousness, and therefore the 
-- the State of Ohio argued that the mental retardation 
evidence here was simply not persuasive and it was 
outweighed by the -- the aggravating factors that the 
jury had found.  Atkins told the --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I interrupt right 

there, Mr. Mizer?  Is it fair to interpret the jury's 
decision to impose the death penalty as having found 
that he was not mentally retarded and therefore was not 
a mitigating factor, or that even though he was -- a 
mitigating factor, the aggravating factors outweighed 
that factor?

 MR. MIZER:  I think, Your Honor, that it's 
fairest and the record that's easiest to go by is what 
the Ohio Supreme Court said, because the jury didn't 
make any specific remarks about mental retardation as a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

mitigator; the Ohio Supreme Court did.

 But the -- the jury's verdict and then the 

Ohio Supreme Court's affirmance should best be read as a 
determination that the aggravating factors outweigh the 
mitigating factors beyond a reasonable doubt, and that 
mental retardation was one of those mitigating factors. 
But it should not be read as a mini-verdict on the 
existence of or the question of whether Mr. Bies is 
mentally retarded.  Because --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  If they didn't make a 
finding on mental retardation, how -- how could the 
appellate court determine that it was a mitigator but 
overwhelmed by the aggravating -- what did the judge 
charge the jury about mitigators and aggravators?

 MR. MIZER:  The judge charged the jury that 

-- first of all, Your Honor, the mitigating evidence 
introduced by Mr. Bies was not extensive.  He -- he 
introduced an unsworn statement by himself and then Dr. 
Winter testified, and that was the extent of the case in 
mitigation.  So the jury was charged with the various 
statutory mitigating factors in Ohio, which is found in 
Ohio Revised Code 2929.04.

 The mental retardation evidence was relevant 

under two of those mitigating statutory factors, one, 
factor 3, which went to mental disease or defect, and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

then the catch-all, factor 7.  But the -- but I think 
Poland helps to illuminate what the -- not only what the 
jury was doing, but also what the Ohio Supreme Court was 
doing when it --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  First go back to the 

jury.  How do we know that the jury found mental 
retardation as a mitigator?

 MR. MIZER:  We don't, Your Honor.  All that 
we know is that the jury determined that the aggravating 
factors outweighed the mitigators beyond a reasonable 
doubt.  What we do know and what the Sixth Circuit hung 
its hat on was the statement by the Ohio Supreme Court 
on direct review that Mr. Bies's mental retardation 
merits weight in mitigation.

 Poland explains that that -- that statement 

by the Ohio Supreme Court should not be treated as a 
mini-verdict on the mitigating factor, but instead it 
should be read as an Eighth Amendment-required marking 
of the guidepost, the very guidepost that this Court in 
Penry said must be marked, the relevance of mitigating 
evidence of mental retardation.

 But -- but Poland says it's wrong to think 
of that marking of that Eighth Amendment guidepost as a 
mini-verdict on mental retardation, and instead it 
should just be thought of as one of the factors that was 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

bounding the discretion of the sentencer.  And so Poland 
instructs that Mr. Bies and the Sixth Circuit are wrong 
to think of mental retardation as actually having been 
found in some sense that affords preclusive effect, 
because instead it was just an Eighth Amendment 
balancing.

 And instead what Atkins tells us is that the 

State of Ohio, just as the States were given the 
opportunity after Ford v. Wainwright in the insanity 
context, should be given the opportunity for the very 
first time in this case to implement Atkins to 
determine, given clinical expert judgment, whether or 
not Mr. Bies is in fact mentally retarded under the 
three-part --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I understand the argument 
that the issues are not quite the same, that the Atkins 
issue of mental retardation is not quite the same as the 
issue that was litigated.  Let's try and get that out of 
the case.  I think that's where Justice Kennedy was 
going.

 Suppose it was a gun case and the Supreme 
Court originally thought you could convict people who 
sell drugs of simple possession of a gun.  There's a 
finding, because it's a bench trial, that he simply 
possessed but did not otherwise use the gun.  Then the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Supreme Court holds that that isn't enough under the 
statute.  So now the State wants to argue, because the 
proceeding on appeal or whatever is still going on, we 
want a second shot at this; we want to show he did more 
than simply possess.  Is the State bound by what it 
previously lost on or can the State -- can he get a 
second shot?

 MR. MIZER:  The answer is that the State is 
not bound, for two reasons, the first relating to issue 
preclusion and the second relating to the double 
jeopardy doctrine in Ashe.  On issue preclusion, the --
the finding with respect to the gun doesn't carry 
preclusive effect because this Court said in --
Sunnen and other cases that when there is a change in 
legal consequences, that change is enough to prevent the 
operation of preclusive rules.

 But on the double jeopardy doctrine --
JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm not -- I'm not going to 
go into double jeopardy.  I don't think necessarily that 
it's double jeopardy that -- that is relevant here.  But 
I have a -- have you run into this in a different 
context?  They wouldn't use the word "double jeopardy." 
It would be some kind of due process problem.  Maybe 
there isn't a problem.  Have you run in your research to 
anything like what I described? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. MIZER:  No, Your Honor, because it is 
important to remember that this is -- this is a double 
jeopardy case because of Ashe, and because this is in 
Federal habeas.

 With respect to your question about due 
process or -- or other rules aside from due process, 
it's possible that the State could have more expansive 
common law or State law interpretations of the 
collateral estoppel rules, and maybe those would benefit 
the defendant.  This Court in -- in the Hoag case 
declined to use due process to incorporate collateral 
estoppel rules constitutionally.  So in your case the 
defendant would only be left with the hope that the 
State would have more expansive collateral estoppel 
rules.

 But to return to Ashe, the defendant here is 

claiming that he is entitled to a constitutionalized 
version of collateral estoppel because of Ashe, but he's 
not entitled to that protection because Ashe applies 
only where a defendant has previously been acquitted, 
and he has not.

 It also applies only in a case where the 

defendant is facing a successive jeopardy of some sort. 
Now, Mr. Bies's sentence is -- is surely at issue in 
this case, but it's at issue in the sense that it would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

be at issue in, say, a direct appeal.  It's only --
there has only been one prosecution.  The State has only 
taken one crack at convicting him or imposing a 
sentence, and that one sentence is what's at issue here.

 And so there is not anything successive 
about this case, and so the Double Jeopardy Clause, 
either through the put-in-jeopardy text or through the 
acquittal requirement, simply has nothing to offer Mr. 
Bies in the way of assistance.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Could I ask you about --

about exhaustion?  What should we do about exhaustion 
here?  I take it you don't -- you're not waiving 
exhaustion?

 MR. MIZER:  Your Honor, we're not contending 

that the Ashe claim is unexhausted.  We agree that 
that's exhausted because in the Ohio courts it is not 
permissible to take an interlocutory appeal when a 
double jeopardy claim has been denied, as it was in this 
case.

 And so we are fine with the Sixth Circuit 

precedent that holds that in that case the Federal 
courts can act in habeas to prevent exposure to a double 
jeopardy.  We simply maintain that there is no second 
jeopardy here.  But the Atkins claim itself is 
unexhausted, and the Federal magistrate that first dealt 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

with this case in Federal Court held that it was 
unexhausted.  And so now this case needs to go back down 
to the Ohio postconviction court, for what that court to 
do what it was about to do, which is to hold an Atkins 
hearing for the very first time in this case.

 If there are no further questions, I'll 

reserve the balance of my time.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Let -- let me just ask, 

does the State have any position now as to his IQ?
 MR. MIZER:  No, Your Honor.  The Ohio 

postconviction court said at pages 101 to 104a of the 
Petition Appendix that the IQ remains in question.  Dr. 
Winters testified at trial that it was 68 or 69; she 
wasn't perfectly consistent.  But other record evidence 
introduced later on postconviction proceedings is not 
consistent with that, and so that still needs to be 
definitively --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Wasn't there some 

testimony that one test was only 50?

 MR. MIZER:  That evidence is in the JA, and 
it was introduced after -- after the Ohio Supreme Court 
had issued the decision at issue in this case.  So that 
evidence is in the record, but it is not part of the 
Ohio Supreme Court's finding.  It was introduced on 
postconviction review.  So it needs to be considered by 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the experts and by the postconviction court when this 
goes back to --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Will the State -- would 

you say the State has an independent obligation to -- to 
ensure itself that he has an adequate IQ?

 MR. MIZER:  Absolutely, Your Honor, in order 

to be constitutionally consistent with -- with Atkins. 
But that would be borne out through the -- the 
adversarial process in the Atkins hearing that hasn't 
occurred yet.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Blume.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN H. BLUME
 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. BLUME:  Mr. Chief Justice, may it please 

the Court:

 Much of the discussion so far has focused on 

issues which did not form the basis of the panel's 
decision.  The panel decided this case under 2254(d)(2). 
And what the panel determined was that the State court's 
decision that Dr. Winter, who was the testifying 
psychiatrist, did not apply the clinical definition of 
mental retardation in forming her opinions and rendering 
her conclusions was an unreasonable determination of the 
facts in light of the evidence presented in the State 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

court proceeding.

 And it was on that basis the court went 
through the evidence and determined that, in fact, 
Dr. Winter had used the clinical definition of mental 
retardation in rendering her opinion, and that that 
meant that the Ohio Court of Appeals and the Ohio 
Supreme Court made a finding of mental retardation based 
on the clinical -- the clinical definition of mental 
retardation.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But even -- even if that's 

so, that's not necessarily an -- an Atkins finding, 
isn't that correct?

 MR. BLUME:  No, I think it is.  It's not as 

if there's something --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Atkin -- Atkin -- we didn't 
determine what the definition of retardation was.  We --
we operated in Atkins on a broad conception of 
retardation and we came down with a general rule.  But 
we left it for later litigation, starting in the States, 
to determine exactly how that line ought to be drawn.
 We didn't know where the line ought to be 

drawn at that point and certainly the clinical 
psychologists didn't know, regardless of what the --
what definition was being used.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And the Ohio Supreme 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Court acting years before Atkins.
 MR. BLUME:  Pardon me?
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The -- wasn't the Ohio 

Supreme Court decision in this case pre-Atkins?
 MR. BLUME:  Yes, it was.  But the --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And it was dealing with 

retardation as a mitigator, not retardation as 
conclusive that there can be no death penalty.

 MR. BLUME:  That's true, but the -- the 

important point, I think, that formed the basis of the 
Sixth Circuit opinion was that in Lott versus -- which 
is the Ohio decision post-Atkins, in Lott they said 
we're embracing the clinical definition of mental 
retardation.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But before you get to 
whether -- anything like that, you are urging issue 
preclusion against the winner.  It was a death sentence 
in this case.  And I am not aware of issue preclusion 
operating against a judgment winner.  Issue preclusion 
is for the party who fought this out and won.

 Here we have a death sentence.  So there --

the ultimate determination, whatever intermediate 
determinations might have been made on the way, like 
mental retardation exists and was a mitigator, the 
ultimate judgment is death.  And I am not aware of, in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

all of issue preclusion, where a judgment winner is 
precluded.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, clearly that is the more 
typical procedural context, and it happens normally in 
the criminal context of someone that's been acquitted. 
But the procedural posture here is unique, because what 
you have is a prior finding of mental retardation 
pre-Atkins, and clearly, at least according to the 
panel, using the definition of mental retardation which 
is now in effect in Ohio.

 Then subsequent to that you had this Court's 

decision in Ohio -- I mean this Court's decision in 
Atkins, which creates a retroactive new rule which says 
that people with mental retardation can't be executed. 
The essence of a retroactive new rule is that it 
attaches new legal consequences to prior conduct.

 So it is both the rule of Ashe, which says 

when an issue has been determined in a final proceeding, 
combined with this Court's decision in Atkins placing a 
category of people --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the question is what 

is the issue, and an intermediate finding, say 
mitigation, on the way to the ultimate conclusion, life 
or death, is not the same issue as if retardation is 
found, no death penalty.  It's -- it's the ultimate 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

issue in the case that was before the Ohio Supreme Court 
is, do the aggravators outweigh the mitigators?  That's 
the ultimate determination, and that's what would have 
preclusive effect, not the many intermediate findings 
that may have been made on the way to the ultimate 
determination of death.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, Justice Ginsburg, I think 
that minimizes or does not give adequate significance to 
what the Ohio Supreme Court describes as its role in --
on the appellate review.  And they describe their role 
as being that they engage in an independent reweighing 
of the mitigation against the aggravation.  A first step 
of that is the identification of the mitigating 
circumstances.

 So they have taken it upon themselves to 

identify the mitigating circumstances, and they have to 
do that by a preponderance of the evidence, which is the 
same standard which exists now in a Lott proceeding.

 In the course of reviewing Mr. Bies's 

sentence on appeal, intermediate appeal of the court of 
appeals, and then the Ohio Supreme Court, both courts 
found that Mr. Bies had mental retardation.  It's not 
also -- I mean, they have described this as an essential 
function of their role, and they also don't do it 
uncritically. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

There are other cases, State v. White for 

example, in which they made an express finding that the 
individual had not proven his mental retardation.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  In -- in response to 

Justice Ginsburg's question, I don't see why it makes 
any difference which court is doing what.  She -- she 
raised two objections.  Number one is that so far as the 
issue being determined in the prior proceeding, the 
characterization of his mental state as retardation was 
at most a subsidiary, not an ultimate fact.

 Number two, the conclusion of that prior 

proceeding was that he lost.  And she's saying in those, 
in either of those circumstances, the subsidiary finding 
is not preclusive and any finding is not preclusive in 
the manner in which he wishes to use it here.

 I don't see what difference it makes whether 
we're talking about court A or court B.  What is -- what 
is your response to those two objections?

 MR. BLUME:  Well, on the first point, I 

didn't mean that it necessarily matters which court it 
did.  I was saying that -- trying to describe -- usually 
the necessary part, which is in some ways what we're 
talking about here, was it necessary, turns on two 
considerations.  And the necessary -- it's designed to 
determine, as I understand it, one, was the issue 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

decided; and, two, was it decided with some care for its 
significance to the proceeding?

 And I think, given the unique way in which 
Ohio does the sentence review, both of those concerns 
are satisfied.  As for --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  If -- if the Ohio court had 

found, the court of first instance had found, that the 
IQ was at some different level, it could have come out 
exactly the same way it came out in this case, couldn't 
it?

 MR. BLUME:  Yes, it could have.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  So the finding was not 

necessary to the result?

 MR. BLUME:  Well --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  I mean, we went through 

this with your brother, and he pointed out, yes, it was 
necessary to -- to consider the issue and to make some 
kind of a finding -- I don't know how precise it had to 
be -- but the finding that it made, the -- the actual 
number that was used or the characterization that was 
used to describe that number was not necessary in order, 
in fact, to impose the death penalty.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, I --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  And -- and the sense of 

necessity which is used normally in -- in this kind of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

preclusion analysis just doesn't apply here.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, that is not my reading of 
the necessary cases.  I read that the function that the 
necessary prong serves as trying to serve two goals. 
Number one, was the issue, the question, the issue --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How do you say you 

have -- you don't find that in the cases when you said 
to me, and I think frankly you were right, that issue 
preclusion -- and there are many, many cases on issue 
preclusion -- is something that a judgment winner uses, 
not a judgment loser, and here the Ohio -- yes, they 
weighed and they found retardation, but they also found 
overwhelmed by the aggravating circumstances.  So the 
ultimate determination of that, of all the courts, is 
death?

 I don't see how you get to elevate an 

intermediate determination -- there are many; some go 
for one party, some go for the other -- to become the 
outcome determinative factor.  The outcome determinative 
factor is that the aggregators outweighed whatever 
mitigators there were.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, I mean -- again, that is 
not my understanding of the role the necessary clause 
plays.

 But now, on to the winner point.  So if 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that's necessary -- I don't think there's anything in 
Ashe v. Swenson that says you have to win on the 
ultimate outcome.  It's do you win on the fact.  If 
that's right -- and let's imagine --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But Ashe is about 

somebody who was acquitted.  He won.  There was no doubt 
that he won.

 MR. BLUME:  I understand.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It didn't say anything 

about, well, suppose he didn't win.

 MR. BLUME:  But the Ashe rule is stated in 
terms of when an issue of fact has been determined in a 
defendant's favor it's binding in any subsequent 
litigation.

 But if the Warden is right -- and let's 

imagine now Mr. Bies goes back for his mental 
retardation hearing, and the court says:  Yes, Mr. Bies 
is mentally retarded; on the other hand, I think Atkins 
was wrongly decided.

 It goes up on appeal to the Ohio Supreme 

Court and they say:  Yes, Mr. Bies is mentally retarded, 
but we think Atkins was wrongly decided.  The case comes 
to this Court, and you summarily reverse and say Atkins 
is still the law of the land.

 Now it goes back, and the Warden could then 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

say:  Well, now that we know you're serious about 
Atkins, we want to reopen the judgment and we want 
another shot --

JUSTICE BREYER:  It's not reopen -- it's --

it's the same problem.  And maybe you found some 
authority to the contrary, other than statements, but 
actual authority.  The defendant loses.  He appeals.  He 
says they made a mistake.  And the normal remedy is you 
give him a new trial.  Does it matter that it's a 
collateral proceeding?  I don't think so.  They go to 
the Federal court:  Judge, they made a mistake at my 
trial.  You give him a new trial.  Everything's up for 
grabs normally at the new trial.  I can't think of an 
instance where it isn't.

 Here, they are saying:  Judge, they made a 

mistake.  They should have applied the mental 
retardation rule of Atkins.  So give him a new trial.

 Now, what I'm looking for is just one 

example somewhere that supports you --

MR. BLUME:  Well --
JUSTICE BREYER:  -- that didn't proceed on 

the theory I've just announced or just said.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, I -- I mean, I can't give 

you a case exactly like that, but, again, I think the 
procedure --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE BREYER:  No, I want a case even 

vaguely like that.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. BLUME:  I think what you have are the 
cases -- you had the cases which essentially are the 
legal equivalent of insufficient evidence on appeal. 
Now, that's not technically an acquittal, but it's 
treated as an acquittal.  But what you have here is a 
finding of fact combined with a later decision on the --
establishing a retroactive new rule, moving people 
outside --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How far -- how far 
down do you go on applying the issue preclusion?  Let's 
say there's a ruling by the court that a particular 
expert was not credible.  I mean, is that binding in a 
subsequent proceeding?

 MR. BLUME:  No, Mr. Chief Justice.  I think 
it would have to do one of two things.  It would either 
have to absolve the criminal defendant of liability, 
which is sort of the common rule under Ashe, or it would 
have to render him ineligible for the death penalty, 
though the definition of acquittal used in Sattazahn is 
had there been a finding which -- legally sufficient to 
legally entitle the defendant to a life sentence.  And 
it is Mr. Bies's position that the finding of mental 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

retardation --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that's 

narrowing it to your particular context.  I would have 
assumed that the theory has to be more generally 
applicable, and not just applicable in the particular 
Atkins context.  If you can have issue preclusion with 
respect to an underlying factual question under which 
the loser can assert that, I don't see why it wouldn't 
apply more generally.  That's a theory of the Double 
Jeopardy Clause, not of Atkins.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, it's a theory of 

collateral estoppel which is based in the Double 
Jeopardy Clause, which is what -- the issue on which the 
panel resolved this question.  And I think that -- as I 
read the collateral estoppel cases, again and even in 
the context of capital sentencing and double jeopardy, 
the finding would have to be either at the -- at the 
criminal liability stage, would it absolve the defendant 
of liability, like in the Ashe context.  The finding was 
one of identity.  In the first trial, the jury 
acquitted.  The only issue was identity.  When this 
court looked at the record as a whole -- and then they 
said, okay, you can't subsequently litigate the prior --
the nuts crimes on the issue of identity.  In the 
capital sentencing context, at least here, a finding of 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

mental retardation is a finding sufficient to entitle 
the defendant --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Your argument, then --

we're getting somewhere maybe.

 MR. BLUME:  Pardon me?
 JUSTICE BREYER:  You're saying to me, think 

of Jackson and Denno, If you're in a collateral 
proceeding and the Federal judge said there wasn't 
enough evidence to convict him under the Constitution, 
like the Shuffling Sam case, there isn't enough 
evidence; it isn't that he gets a new trial.  The 
Constitution entitles him to acquittal, and therefore 
there is no new trial because of the Double Jeopardy 
Clause, right?

 MR. BLUME:  That's correct.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  So you're 

saying here, the evidence the first time was such that 
they couldn't give him the death penalty under the 
Constitution as later interpreted.  So if that's what 
you discover on the collateral appeal, a similar 
reasoning would somehow lead you to the similar result. 
Is that the argument?

 MR. BLUME:  That's more or less the 

argument.  And the panel --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But if that is the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

argument, then what is being preclusive here is not the 
first judgment.  I mean, in preclusion cases it's the 
first judgment that precludes, and we identify a 
judgment which is preclusive in the way we've been 
describing.  But in the hypothetical that Justice Breyer 
gave you, there's nothing preclusive about the first 
judgment because the first judgment stands and properly 
can stand.  And you're saying there can't be a second 
judgment, but you are not depending upon a rule of 
preclusion that turns on the first.  So whatever your 
argument is, it's not -- it's not issue preclusion.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, it is the combination of 
the determination that Mr. Bies is a person with mental 
retardation using the same definition according to the 
panel, which is now in effect in the State of Ohio, 
which would apply in a Lott proceeding if he were to 
have it tomorrow.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Sure, but you're coming up 
with a brand new rule.  Whatever your rule is, it's not 
a rule of double jeopardy and it's not -- it's not the 
traditional rule of issue preclusion.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, it is the combination of 
that factual determination with the subsequent rule, a 
retroactive new rule.  I mean, it's unusual because 
there are very few retroactive new rules of procedure 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

which place someone outside --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, but what your rule is, 
as I understand it in your response to Justice Breyer's 
question, is if there was a subsidiary fact 
determination in the first case, even though it was 
entirely consistent with the judgment against your 
client, that's subsidiary fact determination can be used 
as a defense by your client in the second case.  That's 
your rule, as I understand it, and that is not the rule 
of Ashe v. Swenson and it is not the rule of issue 
preclusion.

 MR. BLUME:  It could be used if there is a 
later legal ruling which means the significance of that 
fact would either absolve the criminal defendant of 
liability or make him ineligible for death.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, you -- do you agree 

with me that you're asking for a brand-new rule here?

 MR. BLUME:  I don't think it is a brand-new 

rule.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  We have never held this, 

and I don't know of any court that's ever held this.
 MR. BLUME:  But I think the reason you 

haven't isn't --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, why isn't it brand 

new? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. BLUME:  It's because of the unique 

procedural posture of this case.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, maybe the unique 

procedural posture is precisely the reason that the rule 
is brand new.  If it's unique, we've never had it 
before.

 MR. BLUME:  But --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  We have the factor that 
you would preclude Ohio from doing, when we expressly 
said that here is the rule:  You can't execute the 
mentally retarded.  However, we are going to leave it to 
the State to shape the procedure, and what are the 
elements of retardation?  You would take all that away 
from Ohio because in a different context, the context of 
weighing mitigators against aggravators, the Ohio 
Supreme Court said there was retardation, it is 
mitigating; however, it was overwhelmed by the 
aggravators.

 It's an entirely different operation than, 
States, here's the rule; the procedure for doing it is 
up to you.  Ohio didn't have a procedure for doing 
Atkins.  It couldn't until Atkins was decided.  And now 
you're saying, oh, Ohio, because you, in the context of 
weighing mitigators against aggravators, found this 
mitigator, you cannot shape the Atkins procedure as 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

every other State can.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, I don't think that's a 

fair determination of what the panel did in this case. 
What the panel said is, number one, that we look at the 
procedure and definition of mental retardation that Ohio 
has adopted.  Now, it is the same as the definition of 
mental retardation which was used by Dr. Winter in her 
testimony in Mr. Bies's trial, and is the -- that is the 
sole basis for the determination.  And they said the 
burdens of proof are the same.  He had the burden of 
establishing this fact of mental retardation by a 
preponderance, and that's the same.  So, therefore, on 
that basis, they decided he --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the incentive is 

vastly different, which is an important factor in issue 
preclusion.  That is, if the prosecutor thinks that 
there's overwhelming evidence of the aggravators, the 
nature of the crime, the prosecutor is not going to care 
so much about, so there is mental retardation as a 
mitigator; but when it's a difference, when the 
prosecutor wants to go for the death penalty and it 
thinks that it's got a secure case on the atrocious 
matter in which the crime was committed, there isn't the 
same incentive to litigate as there is when it is the 
ultimate question, not an issue on the way to reaching 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the ultimate judgment.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, I don't think, Justice 

Ginsburg, the incentives have to be identical, but 
certainly prior to Atkins the prosecution had the 
incentive to contest the mental retardation question, 
and in fact in this case the failure to more adequately 
contest it wasn't due to a lack of incentives, it was 
due to a lack of evidence.  There were three experts 
that evaluated Mr. Bies, all of whom came to virtually 
identical conclusions.  About his mental state.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, this strikes 

me as the sort of case where their incentives might well 
be different, as Justice Ginsburg suggested.  If you're 
dealing with a borderline case, you don't -- and you 
think you have very compelling aggravating factors, you 
know, why call attention to the -- the mitigating factor 
of the mental condition when your case can be won on the 
others?

 MR. BLUME:  Well, I think for three reasons, 
Mr. Chief Justice.  Number one, as this Court recognized 
in Atkins, in cases where there was evidence of mental 
retardation, the jury was much less likely to impose a 
death sentence; that in part was part of the basis of 
this Court's decision in Atkins.  Second, on appeal, by 
not contesting the evidence -- the State of Ohio did 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

contest it here -- you ran the risk that the Ohio Court 
of Appeals or the Ohio Supreme Court would reach a 
different conclusion, number one, on the balance of 
aggravation and mitigation; or, number two, on whether 
the death sentence was disproportion.  And the Ohio 
Supreme Court had done that in several other cases.

 But here also, right, you had not only the 
direct appeal and the findings, but you have additional 
findings and concessions in State postconviction, where 
Mr. Bies goes in in State postconviction, and he raises 
a pre-Atkins categorical bar claim, and says I'm a 
person with mental retardation; since this Court's 
decision in Penry, things have changed; and I believe my 
death sentence is disproportionate under the Ohio and 
the United States Constitution.

 In response to that, the State, number one, 
conceded mental retardation and said we agree the record 
reveals Mr. Bies is a person with mental retardation, 
and the postconviction court then enters a finding of 
fact.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Did they admit that as a 
finding of fact, or did they say that mental retardation 
had been found as a mitigator by the Ohio Supreme Court?
 MR. BLUME:  No, they said the record reveals 
Mr. Bies to be a person with mental retardation, with an 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

IQ of 69.  It is not that there was, we assume for the 
sake of argument, it was nothing like a mitigating.  It 
was a finding of fact, now that Mr. Bies was a person --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It was an admission; it 

couldn't have been a finding of fact.  You said that 
that's what the State claimed.  Where is the admission 
of the State in this State postconviction proceeding 
that Mr. Bies is mentally retarded?

 MR. BLUME:  It is in the Joint Appendix at 

153.  This is actually the State court order, the 
finding of fact, and it says:  Findings of fact.  The 
defendant is shown by the record to be mildly mentally 
retarded with an IQ of 69.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You told me that this --

that State conceded that the defendant was mentally 
retarded, and I'm -- that's what I asked you.

 MR. BLUME:  I'm sorry, that is both at JA 

143 where -- JA 143 in the State's motion, response for 
judgment:  "The record reveals defendant to be mildly 
mentally retarded with an IQ of 69."  And that 
concession is repeated in the post conviction appeal at 
page 160 of the Joint Appendix.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  What does that have to do 

with issue preclusion?  The State can't -- that may 
raise an issue of judicial estoppel.  Is that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

constitutionally required?

 MR. BLUME:  I think it primarily does raise 
a question of judicial estoppel, which we raised, which 
is -- and that is not a technical basis on which to 
grant habeas.  It is a reason that the writ should be 
dismissed as improvidently granted.

 There have been multiple concessions after 

that.  This was raised by Mr. Bies in his, sort of --
when he asked for estoppel, he asked for it on multiple 
bases.  Just as the fact that the warden, the panel 
again decided this under 2254(d)(2) grounds.  The warden 
did not raise an issue under 2254(d)(2) in this Court.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But I'm not sure that 

there's even anything -- I mean, it does raise a 
judicial estoppel issue, but I'm not sure there is a --
a record hereupon which a -- a judicial estoppel claim 
could be maintained, because in the passages that you 
referred us to, first the State's concession and 
secondly the finding which -- which followed from it, it 
was a reference to mild mental retardation and a 
specific reference to an IQ of 69.

 I think it's a stretch, would be a stretch, 

to go from saying that a concession of mild mental 
retardation for purposes of mitigation analysis should 
be taken as a concession for dispositive mental 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

retardation for Atkins purposes.  So I -- I have 
difficulty in seeing any clear inconsistency in the 
State's two positions.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The very next sentence is 

as a matter of law -- the law as it was then -- such a 
person may be punished by execution.  So, again, it's --
the stakes are quite different.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, not in regard to this 

particular claim.  The claim that we're talking about 
where this concession was made and where this finding 
was made wasn't -- this wasn't the brief on mitigation, 
this was a postconviction challenge to his death 
sentence as a matter of law, saying --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But that must have been, 

the page you called my attention to must have been 
pre-Atkins.

 MR. BLUME:  It was pre-Atkins, but the claim 
was a pre-Atkins Atkins claim.  The claim was not - was 
I am categorically ineligible for the death penalty, and 
I am ineligible because since the Court's decision in 
Atkins, things have changed.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  No, no, we're back --

what you called my attention to was pre-Atkins.  It was 
the application made to the State court before Atkins 
which put two sentences together.  One was the record 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

reveals defendant to be mildly mentally regarded with an 
IQ of about 69.  As a matter of law, such a person may 
be punished by execution.  This is all pre-Atkins.

 So one statement has to be read in the light 

of what was its significance, and it wasn't the 
conclusive factor at the time of that motion.

 MR. BLUME:  Well, that was the claim.  His 

claim was it violates the Eighth Amendment to excuse 
people with mental retardation.  This was not -- this 
was after the direct appeal.  He now filed for post 
conviction and he goes in and says, look, I've been sort 
of tracking things since Atkins; States have -- adopt 
new laws.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Since Atkins, we're 

talking about --

MR. BLUME:  I'm sorry, since Penry.  Since 
Penry there have been new developments, and I believe 
that a new consensus exists, the one that this Court 
subsequently embraced, and it violates the Eighth 
Amendment and the Ohio Constitution to execute persons 
with mental retardation.  And it was in response to that 
claim that the State conceded the fact of mental 
retardation, and it was in response to that claim that 
the State court found again Mr. Bies to be a person with 
mental retardation. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

That wasn't in some question of the balance 
of aggravating circumstances.  That was a straight claim 
that you cannot execute me because I have mental 
retardation.

 And so I was really responding more to 

Justice Souter's questions of judicial estoppel and was 
it the same issue in this, and I think it clearly was at 
that time in this particular context.

 Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

Mr. Mizer, you have ten minutes remaining.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN C. MIZER

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. MIZER:  First, with respect to the 

judicial estoppel arguments and the State's purported 
concessions, as Justice Ginsburg noted, the statement to 
which Mr. Bies points was pre-Atkins, and Mr. Bies's 
argument ignores that Atkins changed things in two ways: 
one consequential, by enacting, by placing a categorical 
bar on the States; and the second, definitional.  So for 
the reasons stated of our -- in our yellow brief at 
pages 16 to 18, the judicial estoppel argument fails for 
all kinds of reasons.

 But more to the point, judicial estoppel 

shouldn't apply here also because the State, whatever it 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was saying at the time, was not talking about the 
three-part post-Atkins definition of mental retardation 
in Ohio.

 Mr. Bies also argues that 2254(d)(2) is 
enough to give support to -- to the Sixth Circuit's 
grant of relief -- of relief here, but there are two 
problems with that argument.  The first problem is that 
the Sixth Circuit disregarded the reasonable 
determination by the State's postconviction court that 
the Atkins standard had never been applied.  The second 
problem is that we shouldn't even get to 2254(d)(2) 
because there are legal problems with the Sixth 
Circuit's reasoning that should have prevented it from 
granting the writ under 2254(d)(1).  Mr. Bies argues 
that there is not a legal problem because there was an 
acquittal in this case, because the Ohio Supreme Court's 
statement on direct review that Mr. Bies -- that Mr. 
Bies's mild to borderline mental retardation merits 
weight and mitigation was enough to entitle him to a 
life sentence.  But that's not an acquittal, and it's a 
severe distortion of what this Court said in Sattazahn 
about an acquittal.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Mizer, can I just get 
one clarifying question?  The concession at page 160 of 
the record, "The record reveals the defendant to be 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

mildly retarded with an IQ of about 69," and then they 
argue as a matter of law that he cannot be -- he may be 
punished.  Is it your position that the further 
proceeding in the Ohio trial court, that the State 
intends to argue that a person who is mentally retarded 
with an IQ of about 69 may be executed?

 MR. MIZER:  No, Your Honor, the -- this 

statement will be beside the point, and the question now 
post-Atkins --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  So you'll offer evidence 

to show that statement is inaccurate?

 MR. MIZER:  The -- the question is, the 

question posed in Atkins doesn't hinge so narrowly on 
IQ.  IQ is one of the three elements, and so the experts 
on -- on postconviction review will now determine what 
his IQ is.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  I understand that.  The --

could well be different.  But is it Ohio's intent to 
disagree with that statement insofar as it recites 
facts?  That the record reveals the defendant to be 
mildly mentally retarded with an IQ of about 69?  I 
understand you will argue that that's not sufficient to 
-- to come within Atkins.  But do you intend to say --
to challenge the accuracy of that factual statement?

 MR. MIZER:  Yes, Your Honor, as the State 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

postconviction court stated in this case, that -- the 
record evidence pertaining to IQ is not clear; and so 
IQ, among all of the other elements of the mental 
retardation, will be up for determination.

 If there are no further questions, we would 

ask that you reverse the Sixth Circuit.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 11:54 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review
Official - Subject to Final Review

13:10

best 12:3

16:19,22 

applies 3:16 

apply 19:22 26:1 

30:9 32:16 
42:25 

20:17 21:1 
22:13,19 27:18  beyond 12:5
27:22,23 28:2 
28:17 30:6,10  Bies 1:6 3:4,12
34:22,22,25 
applying 29:13 
36:4,21,24 
April 1:9 
40:1,18,21,24 
arguably 10:23 
41:12,14 42:18 
argue 6:24,24 
43:10 44:13,23 
atrocious 35:22 
10:11,21 11:9 
15:2 44:2,5,22  attaches 22:16 
attention 36:16 

4:1,4 5:13
10:20 12:8,17
14:2,13 17:9
23:22 27:16,17
27:21 32:13
36:9 37:10,18
37:25 38:3,8
39:8 41:24
42:17 43:4,14
43:17

argued 11:11 
argues 43:4,14 
argument 1:12 

40:15,23 

authority 28:6,7 
aware 21:18,25  Bies's 3:22
a.m 1:13 3:2 

2:2,7 3:4,5 
10:8 14:15 
19:13 31:3,22 
31:24 32:1,11 
38:2 42:12,18 
42:22 43:7 
arguments 

42:15 

Ashe 3:17,25 4:2 

4:2,2 15:11 
16:3,16,18,19 
17:15 22:17 
27:2,5,11 
29:20 30:19 
33:10 

aside 16:6 
asked 38:16 

39:9,9 

asking 33:17 
assert 30:8 
assistance 17:9 
Association 6:18 

45:9 

B
B 24:17
back 5:22 13:5

18:2 19:2
27:16,25 40:22

balance 18:7

37:3 42:1

balancing 14:6
bar 8:4 37:11

42:20

based 20:7

30:12

bases 39:10
basis 19:18 20:2
21:10 35:9,13
36:23 39:4
beginning 4:7
behalf 1:16,17

2:4,6,9 3:6
19:14 42:13
behoove 8:9
believe 37:13

41:17

bench 14:24
benefit 4:2,3

16:9

BENJAMIN

1:15 2:3,8 3:5
42:12

13:13 16:24
23:19 29:25
35:8 42:17
43:18

binding 27:13

29:15

Blume 1:17 2:5

19:12,13,15
20:13 21:2,5,9
22:3 23:7
24:19 25:11,14
25:23 26:2,22
27:8,11 28:20
28:23 29:4,17
30:11 31:5,15
31:23 32:12,22
33:12,18,22
34:1,7 35:2
36:2,19 37:24
38:9,17 39:2
40:8,17 41:7
41:16

Bobby 1:3 3:4
borderline 6:20

36:14 43:18

borne 19:8
bound 15:5,9
bounding 14:1
brand 32:19
33:24 34:5
brand-new
33:17,18

aggravators 
12:14 23:2 
34:15,18,24 
35:17 

aggregators 

26:20 

agree 17:15 

33:16 37:17 
agreed 4:12,14 

4:16,18 

ALITO 17:10 

38:23 

allowed 7:22 
Amendment 
13:23 14:5 
41:8,20 

Amendment-r... 

13:18 

American 6:18 
analysis 3:10,16 

26:1 39:24 
announced 

28:22 

answer 7:5 15:8 
appeal 15:3 17:1 
17:17 23:20,20 
27:20 29:6 
31:20 36:24 
37:8 38:21 
41:10 

appeals 20:6 
23:21 28:7 
37:2 

APPEARAN... 

1:14 

appellate 9:20 

A 

above-entitled 

1:11 45:10 

Absolutely 19:6 
absolve 29:19 
30:18 33:14 

accuracy 44:24 
accused 6:24 
acquittal 3:14 

4:4,8 17:8 29:7 
29:8,22 31:12 
43:16,20,22 
acquitted 4:5 
16:20 22:5 
27:6 30:21 

act 17:22 
acting 21:1 
actual 25:19 

28:7 

adaptive 5:17 

6:21 8:16 

additional 37:8 
adequate 19:5 

23:8 

adequately 36:6 
adjudicate 3:22 
administer 4:21 
admission 38:4 

38:6 

admit 37:21 
adopt 41:12 
adopted 35:6 
adversarial 10:9 

19:9 

adversary 10:1 
AEDPA 3:21 
affirmance 12:3 
affirmed 7:12 
affords 14:4 
aggravating 

11:13,20 12:4 
12:13 13:9 
26:13 36:15 
42:2 

aggravation 
23:12 37:4 

aggravator 9:23 

9:25 10:3,5,19  assume 38:1 
assumed 30:4 
12:12 23:10 
assuming 4:18 
Appendix 5:10 
Atkin 20:15,15 
10:20 18:12 
Atkins 3:13,17 
38:9,22 
3:20,23 4:22 
5:2,3 6:3 7:10 
8:2 11:5,14 
14:7,11,16 
17:24 18:4 
19:7,9 20:11 

applicable 30:5 

application 4:1 

applied 28:16 

40:24 

43:10 

30:5 

46 

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review 

combined 22:19 

18:25 

29:9 

19:11,15 29:12  come 5:22 8:22 
8:25 10:7 25:8 
29:17 30:2 
44:23 
36:11,20 42:10 
45:7 

comes 9:23 

Breyer 14:15 

15:18 28:4,21 
29:1 31:3,6,16 
32:5 

Breyer's 33:3 
brief 40:11 

42:21 

briefs 10:19,20 
broad 20:17 
brother 25:16 
Bullington 4:7 
burden 35:10 
burdens 35:10 

C 

C 1:15 2:1,3,8 
3:1,5 42:12 

categorical 8:4 
37:11 42:19 
categorically 

40:19 

category 22:20 
centers 3:24 
certain 7:19 
certainly 20:22 

challenge 40:12 

36:4 

44:24 

chance 3:22 
change 15:14,15 
changed 37:13 
40:21 42:18 

characterizati... 

24:9 25:20 
charge 12:14 
charged 12:15 

clearly 22:3,8 

45:2 

42:7 

client 33:7,8 
clinical 8:3,7,8 
8:12,14 14:12 
19:22 20:4,8,8 
20:22 21:13 
clinicians 6:18 
close 6:20 
Code 12:22 
collateral 3:16 
4:2 16:9,11,14 
16:18 28:10 
30:12,15 31:7 
31:20 

Columbus 1:15 
combination 

32:12,22 

call 36:16 
called 5:13 
40:15,23 
capital 30:16,25  Chief 3:3,7 
care 25:1 35:18 
careful 8:7 
carefully 5:5 

12:20 

6:21 

43:13 

circumstances 

Circuit 13:11 
14:2 17:20 
21:11 43:8 
45:6 

carry 15:12 
case 3:15,24 
4:11,12,23 
5:24 6:20 8:19 
8:20,22 12:19  Circuit's 43:5 
14:11,19,21 
16:3,10,12,22 
16:25 17:6,19 
17:21 18:1,2,5 
18:22 19:19 
21:4,18 23:1 
25:9 27:22 
28:24 29:1 
31:10 33:5,8 
34:2 35:3,22 
36:6,12,14,17 
claimed 38:6 
43:16 45:1,8,9 
claiming 16:17 
cases 15:14 24:1  clarifying 43:24 
26:3,7,9 29:5,5  clause 3:11 17:6 
30:15 32:2 
36:21 37:6 
catch-all 13:1 

clear 6:16 40:2 

27:22 

coming 32:18 
commits 3:11 
committed 

common 16:8 

35:23 

29:20 

23:14,16 24:13  compelling 
26:13 42:2 

36:15 

claim 3:23 17:15  completely 7:7 
17:18,24 37:11  conceded 37:17 
39:16 40:9,9 
40:17,18,18 
41:7,8,22,23 
42:2 

38:15 41:22 

conception 

20:17 

concerns 25:4 
concession 

conclusion 3:10 

convict 14:22 

9:10 22:23 
24:11 37:3 
conclusions 

19:24 36:10 
conclusive 6:4 

21:8 41:6 

31:9 

convicting 17:3 
conviction 38:21 

41:11 

correct 9:11,15 

10:14 20:12 
31:15 

condition 36:17 
counsel 19:11 
conduct 22:16 
conflicting 5:15 
42:10 45:7 
consensus 41:18  course 23:19 
consequences 
15:15 22:16 
consequential 

42:19 

consider 25:17 
considerations 

24:24 

considered 

Considering 

7:25 

consistent 3:21 
18:14,16 19:7 
33:6 

Constitution 
31:9,12,19 
37:15 41:20 

constitutionali... 

8:3 16:17 

constitutionally 

16:12 19:7 
39:1 

contained 5:2 
contending 

17:14 

contest 10:1 
36:5,7 37:1 

court 1:1,12 3:8 
3:12,21 4:7,13 
4:14 5:1,7,10
6:16 7:11,12
7:24 10:16 
11:5,6,24 12:1 
12:12 13:3,12
13:16,19 14:22 
15:1,13 16:10 
18:1,3,3,11,21 
19:1,16 20:1,2 
20:6,7 21:1,4 
23:1,9,20,21
24:6,17,17,20 
25:6,7 27:17 
27:21,23 28:11 
29:14 30:22 
33:21 34:16 
36:20 37:1,2,6
37:19,23 38:10 
39:12 40:24 
41:18,24 43:9 
43:21 44:4 
45:1 

courts 3:22 7:16 
7:18 9:20 10:5 
11:3 17:16,22
23:21 26:14 

12:3 18:24 
19:20 22:11,12 
22:19 36:24 
37:12 40:20 
43:16 

contesting 36:25 
context 4:9 7:7,8  court's 3:19 5:2 

38:21 39:18,23 
39:25 40:10 
43:24 

14:10 15:22 
22:4,5 30:3,6 
30:16,19,25 
34:14,14,23 
42:8 

26:23 30:10,13  concessions 37:9 
31:14 

39:7 42:16 

concluded 5:7 

continuing 10:1 
contrary 28:6 

crack 17:3 
creates 22:13 

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

credible 29:15 
crime 35:18,23 
crimes 30:24 
criminal 22:5 
29:19 30:18 
33:14 

D 

D 3:1 
daily 5:18 
dangerousness 

11:10 

DAVID 1:3 
de 10:6 
deal 10:15 
dealing 21:6 

36:14 

dealt 17:25 
death 4:5,9,10 
4:10,12,14,21 
6:2 9:24 11:17 
21:8,17,21,25 
22:24,25 23:6 
25:22 26:15 
29:21 31:18 
33:15 35:21 
36:23 37:5,14 
40:12,19 

decided 3:18 
19:19 25:1,1 
27:19,22 34:22 
35:13 39:11 
decision 3:19 

5:2 11:17 
18:22 19:19,21 
21:4,12 22:12 
22:12,19 29:9 
36:24 37:13 
40:20 

declined 16:11 
defect 12:25 
defendant 5:25 
6:24 16:10,13 
16:16,20,23 
28:7 29:19,24 
30:18 31:2 
33:14 38:12,15 

38:19 41:1 
43:25 44:20 
defendants 4:3 
defendant's 

27:13 

defense 33:8 
defined 4:8 
defining 8:4 
definition 5:3,4 
6:12,15 7:16 
7:18 19:22 
20:4,8,16,24 
21:13 22:9 
29:22 32:14 
35:5,6 43:2 
definitional 

42:20 

definitions 5:2 
definitively 

18:17 

demonstrated 

5:5 

20:16,20 24:25 
44:15 

determined 13:9 

19:20 20:3 
22:18 24:8 
27:12 

developments 

41:17 

difference 7:9,9 
24:6,16 35:20 
different 6:14 
7:7 8:2 9:3 
15:21 25:8 
34:14,19 35:15 
36:13 37:3 
40:7 44:18 

difficulty 40:2 
direct 10:7,19 
10:21 13:13 
17:1 37:8 
41:10 43:17 
disagree 44:19 
disagreement 

denied 17:18 
Denno 31:7 
depending 32:9  discover 31:20 
discretion 14:1 
describe 23:10 
discussion 19:17 
24:21 25:21 

3:25 

disproportion 

described 15:25  disease 12:25 
dismissed 39:6 
dispositive 8:20 

23:23 

8:24 9:13 
39:25 

describes 23:9 
describing 32:5 
designed 24:24 
determination 
5:8 8:22,23,25 
9:9 12:4 19:24  disproportion... 
21:22 23:3,6 
26:14,17 32:13  dispute 3:24 
disregarded 
32:23 33:5,7 
35:3,9 43:9 
45:4 

distortion 43:21 
determinations  doctrine 15:11 

37:14 

43:8 

37:5 

21:23 

determinative 

26:19,19 

determine 3:12 

5:13 6:17 
12:12 14:12 

15:17 

doing 7:24 13:3 
13:4 24:6 34:9 
34:20,21 

double 3:9,11 

15:10,17,19,20 

15:22 16:2 
17:6,18,22 
30:9,12,16 
31:13 32:20 

doubt 12:5 
13:11 27:6 
Dr 5:5,11,18 
12:18 18:12 
19:21 20:4 
35:7 

drawn 20:20,22 
drugs 14:23 
due 15:23 16:5,6 

16:11 36:7,8 

D.C 1:8 
E

E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 4:4 8:19 
early 8:22
easiest 11:23
effect 14:4 15:13 

22:10 23:4
32:15

effectively 8:2
Eighth 13:18,23

14:5 41:8,19
either 8:9 17:7 

24:13 29:18
30:17 33:14
elements 5:3,5
34:13 44:14
45:3

elevate 26:16
embraced 41:19
embracing

21:13

enacting 42:19
engage 23:11
engaged 10:6
ensure 19:5
enters 37:19
entirely 33:6

34:19

entitle 29:24
31:1 43:19
entitled 16:17

16:19 

entitles 31:12 
equivalent 29:6 
ESQ 1:15,17 2:3 

2:5,8 

essence 22:15 
essential 23:23 
essentially 29:5 
establishing

29:10 35:11 
estoppel 3:16 

4:3 16:9,12,14
16:18 30:12,15
38:25 39:3,9
39:15,16 42:6 
42:15,22,24

evaluated 36:9 
Everything's

28:12 

evidence 5:11,15

7:19,22 8:1 
10:6,22,24
11:7,10,12
12:16,23 13:21 
18:14,20,23
19:25 20:3 
23:17 29:6 
31:9,11,17
35:17 36:8,21
36:25 44:10 
45:2 

exactly 20:20 
25:9 28:24 
example 24:2 

28:19 

excerpts 10:20 
excluded 7:18 
excuse 41:8 
execute 34:10 
41:20 42:3 

executed 22:14 

executing 8:4 
execution 40:6 

44:6 

41:3 

exhausted 17:16 
exhaustion 

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

fair 11:16 35:3 
17:11,11,13 
existence 12:8 
fairest 11:23 
exists 10:2 21:24  far 5:22 19:17 
24:7 29:12,12 

23:18 41:18 
expansive 16:7 

expert 14:12 

16:14 

29:15 

experts 5:12 
19:1 36:8 
44:14 

explains 13:15 
exposure 17:22 
express 24:2 
expressly 34:9 
extending 4:8 
extensive 12:17 
extent 12:19 

F 

facing 16:23 
fact 4:13 5:6 

6:17 7:17 9:13 
10:18,22 14:13 
20:3 24:10 
25:22 27:3,12 
29:9 33:4,7,14 
35:11 36:6 
37:20,22 38:3 
38:5,11,11 
39:10 41:22 
factor 6:2 7:15 
11:19,20,21 
12:25 13:1,17 
26:19,20 34:8 
35:15 36:16 
41:6 

factors 3:19 

11:13,20 12:4 
12:5,6,21,24 
13:10,25 36:15 

facts 19:25 

44:20 

factual 30:7 
32:23 44:24 

fails 42:22 
failure 36:6 

favor 27:13 
Federal 16:4 

17:21,25 18:1 
28:11 31:8 

filed 41:10 
final 22:18 
find 5:24 10:12 

26:7 

finding 4:9 6:4 
6:25 8:12 9:21 
12:11 14:24 
15:12 18:24 
20:7,11 22:7 
22:22 24:2,13 
24:14 25:12,18 
25:19 29:9,23 
29:25 30:17,19 
30:25 31:1 
37:19,22 38:3 
38:5,11 39:19 
40:10 

findings 5:16 
23:4 37:8,9 
38:11 

fine 17:20 
first 3:14,22 
6:15 12:16 
13:5 14:11 
15:9 17:25 
18:5 23:12 
24:19 25:7 
30:20 31:17 
32:2,3,6,7,10 
33:5 39:18 
42:14 43:7 
focused 19:17 
followed 39:19 
Ford 14:9 
form 19:18 
formed 21:10 
forming 19:23 
forth 4:25 
forward 3:20 

fought 21:20 
found 11:14,17 

12:21 13:6 
14:4 22:25 
23:22 25:7,7 
26:12,12 28:5 
34:24 37:23 
41:24 

frankly 26:8 
function 23:24 

26:3 

further 18:6 
44:3 45:5 
future 11:10 

G 

G 3:1 
general 1:15 

20:18 

going 14:20 15:3 

15:18 34:11 
35:18 

grabs 28:13 
grant 8:18 39:5 

43:6 

granted 39:6 
granting 43:14 
great 10:15 
grounds 39:11 
guidepost 13:19 

13:19,23 

gun 14:21,23,25 

15:12 
H

H 1:17 2:5 19:13 
habeas 16:4
17:22 39:5

generally 30:4,9  hand 4:4 27:18 
getting 31:4 
Ginsburg 4:16 

happens 22:4
hat 13:12
hear 3:3
9:18 10:10 
hearing 3:12,20
12:10 13:5 
4:22 5:12 18:5 
20:25 21:3,6 
21:15 22:21 
19:9 27:17
23:7 26:6 27:5  heinous 6:1
27:9 34:8 
35:14 36:3,13 
37:21 38:4,14 
40:4,14,22 
41:14 42:16 

helps 13:2
highlighted 7:9
hinge 44:13

held 18:1 33:20 

33:21

Ginsburg's 24:5  history 10:25
give 3:21 23:8 
28:9,12,17,23 
31:18 43:5 

Hoag 16:10
hold 3:12 18:4 
holds 15:1 17:21 
Honor 4:25 6:7 
7:6 8:15 9:2,15 
10:14 11:22
12:16 13:8
16:1 17:14
18:10 19:6
44:7,25

given 7:1 14:8 
14:10,12 25:3 

go 3:19 11:23 
13:5 15:19 
18:2 26:17,18 
28:10 29:13 
35:21 39:23 

goals 26:4 
goes 19:2 27:16 

hope 16:13
hung 13:11
27:20,25 37:10  hypothetical
41:11 

8:21 32:5

I 

identical 36:3,10
identification 

identify 23:16 

23:13 

32:3 

identity 30:20 

30:21,24

ignores 42:18 
illuminate 13:2 
imagine 27:4,16
implement 

14:11 

implementing

5:1

important 16:2

21:10 35:15
impose 11:17
25:22 36:22
imposing 17:3
improvidently

39:6

inaccurate

44:11

incentive 10:15
35:14,24 36:5 
incentives 36:3

36:7,12

includes 5:15,16
including 5:11
inconsistency

40:2

incorporate

16:11

independent
19:4 23:11

independently

3:10 9:20

individual 24:3
ineligible 29:21
33:15 40:19,20

inquiries 8:2
insanity 14:9
insofar 44:19
instance 25:7

28:14

instructs 14:2 

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

insufficient 29:6 
intellectual 5:14 
intend 44:23 
intends 44:5 
intent 44:18 
interlocutory 

17:17 

intermediate 
21:22 22:22 
23:4,20 26:17 
interpret 11:16 
interpretations 

16:8 

interpreted 

31:19 

interrupt 11:15 
introduced 

12:17,18 18:15 
18:21,24 

IQ 5:15,15,19,25 

6:4,16,19,20 
6:25 7:4 8:13 
8:16,19,23 
18:9,12 19:5 
25:8 38:1,13 
38:20 39:21 
41:2 44:1,6,14 
44:14,16,21 
45:2,3 

issue 3:17 4:19 

7:3,6,7 9:5 
14:17,18 15:9 
15:11 16:24,25 
17:1,4 18:22 
21:16,18,19 
22:1,18,22,24 
23:1 24:8,25 
25:17 26:5,5,8 
26:9 27:12 
29:13 30:6,13 
30:21,24 32:11 
32:21 33:10 
35:15,25 38:24 
38:25 39:12,15 
42:7 

issued 18:22 
issues 6:14 

14:16 19:18 

Ithaca 1:17 
i.e 7:3 

J

JA 18:20 38:17 

38:18

Jackson 31:7
jeopardy 3:9,11
3:15 15:11,17
15:19,20,22
16:3,23 17:6 
17:18,23,24
30:10,13,16
31:13 32:20

JOHN 1:17 2:5 

Joint 10:19 38:9 

19:13

38:22

judge 4:12 10:3 
10:3 12:13,15
28:11,15 31:8 
judgment 8:3,7

11:15 12:10 
13:5 14:15,19 
15:18 17:10 
18:8,18 19:3 
19:11,15 20:10 
20:15,25 21:3 
21:6,15 22:21 
23:7 24:4,5 
25:6,12,15,24 
26:6 27:5,9 
28:4,21 29:1 
29:12,17 30:2 
31:3,6,16,25 
32:5,18 33:2,3 
33:16,20,24 
34:3,8 35:14 
36:2,11,13,20 
37:21 38:4,14 
38:23 39:13 
40:4,14,22 
41:14 42:6,10 
42:16 43:23 
44:10,17 45:7 

K

8:8,12,14
14:12 21:19,25
22:1 26:10,11  Kennedy 5:21
28:2 32:2,3,4,7 
6:6,9,23 7:3 
14:19 18:8
32:7,9 33:6 
36:1 38:19 
19:3
judicial 38:25 
39:3,15,16 
42:6,15,22,24 

Kennedy's 8:21
kind 15:23
25:18,25
kinds 42:23
know 7:16 13:6 
13:9,11 20:21 
20:23 25:18
28:1 33:21
36:16

L

lack 10:24,25

36:7,8

land 27:24 
Laughter 29:3
law 16:8,8 27:24 
40:5,5,13 41:2 
44:2

jurors 11:8 
jury 4:11 5:24 
5:24,24 6:4 
7:11,19 9:23 
11:4,7,14,24 
12:14,15,20 
13:3,6,6,9
30:20 36:22
jury's 11:16

12:2

Justice 3:3,7

4:16 5:21 6:6,9 
6:23 7:3 8:11 
8:18,21 9:7,12 
9:16,18 10:10 

39:17 

laws 41:13 
lead 3:10 31:21  making 8:3 
leave 34:11 
manner 24:15 
left 16:13 20:19  marked 13:20 
legal 15:15 
marking 13:18 
22:16 29:6 
33:13 43:12,15  matter 1:11 28:9 

13:23 

legally 29:23,24 
let's 14:18 27:4 
27:15 29:13 

35:23 40:5,13
41:2 44:2 
45:10 

level 7:4,20 9:21  matters 24:20 
mean 4:23 8:12 

9:25 25:8 

liability 29:19 

30:18,19 33:15 

life 5:18 22:23 
29:24 43:20 

light 5:25 19:25 

8:20 22:12 
23:23 24:20 
25:15 26:22 
28:23 29:15 
32:2,24 39:14 

41:4 

meaning 3:25 
limitation 8:17  meanings 9:3 
limitations 5:14  means 4:20 9:14 

5:17 

33:13 

line 6:20 20:20  meant 20:6 

20:21 
lines 3:9 
litigate 10:16 
30:23 35:24 
litigated 14:18 
litigation 20:19 

look 6:21 35:4 

27:14 

41:11 

looked 30:22 
looking 10:3 

28:18 

looks 5:10 8:16 
loser 26:11 30:8 
loses 28:7 
lost 15:6 24:12 
Lott 5:1,8 6:16 
8:16 21:11,12 
23:18 32:16 

M
magistrate

17:25

maintain 17:23
maintained

mental 4:20 5:4 

5:20 6:12,17
6:18 7:14,16
8:1 9:19,22
10:12,17,22
11:2,6,11,25
12:6,11,23,25
13:6,13,21,24
14:3,17 19:23 
20:4,7,8 21:13 
21:24 22:7,9
22:14 23:22 
24:3,9 27:16 
28:16 29:25 
31:1 32:13 
35:5,7,11,19
36:5,10,17,21
37:12,17,18,22
37:25 39:20,23
39:25 41:9,21
41:22,25 42:3 
43:2,18 45:3 
mentally 3:13

4:17 8:4 11:18 
12:9 14:13 

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

27:18,21 34:11 
38:8,12,15,20 
41:1 44:5,21 

19:6 42:11,12 
42:14 43:23 
44:7,12,25 
merited 10:17  Monday 1:9 
merits 13:14 
motion 38:18 

43:18 

41:6 

MICHAEL 1:6  moving 29:10 
mild 39:20,23 
multiple 39:7,9 

37:16 

nuts 30:24 
N.Y 1:17 
O
O 2:1 3:1 
objections 24:7

24:18

order 5:13 19:6 

25:21 38:10 

originally 14:22 
ought 20:20,21 
outcome 26:19 

26:19 27:3 
outside 5:22 
29:11 33:1 

11:13,20 13:10  perfectly 18:14 
26:20 

permissible

43:18 

mildly 38:12,19 
41:1 44:1,21 
minimizes 23:8 
mini-verdict 

12:7 13:17,24 
minutes 42:11 
mistake 28:8,11 

28:16 

mitigating 6:1 

7:15,23,25 
10:24 11:19,20 
12:5,6,16,21 
12:24 13:17,20 
23:13,16 34:17 
36:16 38:2 

mitigation 7:7 

10:18 11:7 
12:20 13:14 
22:23 23:12 
37:4 39:24 
40:11 43:19 
mitigator 4:17 
9:19,22 10:2 
10:13 12:1,12 
13:7 21:7,24 
34:25 35:20 
37:23 

mitigators 12:14 

13:10 23:2 
26:21 34:15,24 
Mizer 1:15 2:3,8 

3:4,5,7 4:24 
6:5,7,10 7:2,5 
8:14 9:2,11,15 
9:17 10:5,14 
11:16,22 12:15 
13:8 15:8 16:1 
17:14 18:10,20 

23:2 

outweighed 

outweigh 12:4 

overwhelming 

15:19 20:11 
24:20 

obligation 19:4
occurred 19:10
offense 6:1 9:5 
offer 17:8 44:10 
oh 34:23

overcome 9:23 
overwhelmed 
12:13 26:13 
34:17 

necessary 8:6,21 
8:24 9:3,4,5,7 
9:9 24:22,23 
24:24 25:13,17 
25:21 26:3,4 
26:23 27:1 

N 
N 2:1,1 3:1 
narrowing 30:3 
narrowly 44:13 
nature 6:1 35:18  Ohio 1:16 3:11 
necessarily 3:18 
3:19,22 4:13 
5:1,6 6:16 7:11 
7:15,15,24
10:16 11:11,24
12:1,3,21,22
13:3,12,16
14:8 17:16
18:3,10,21,24  P 3:1
20:6,6,25 21:3  page 2:2 38:22 
21:12 22:10,12 
23:1,9,21 25:4  pages 5:9 18:11 
25:6 26:11 
27:20 32:15 
22:9 30:14
34:9,14,15,21 
31:24 32:15
34:23 35:5 
36:25 37:1,2,5 
35:3,4 39:10 
37:14,23 41:20  panel's 19:18
Pardon 21:2
43:3,16 44:4 
Ohio's 44:18 
okay 8:18 9:16 

necessity 25:25 
need 6:21 
needed 5:18 
needs 5:12 18:2 

33:20 34:5 
43:10 

35:17 
P

never 4:5 5:18 

panel 19:19,20

40:15 43:24

new 10:6,6 

18:16,25 

42:22

31:5

part 18:23 24:22 

36:23,23

30:23 

operated 20:17 
operates 4:3 
operating 21:19 
operation 15:16  particularly

particular 4:11
9:8 29:14 30:3 
30:5 40:9 42:8 

22:13,15,16 
28:9,12,13,17 
29:10 31:11,13 
32:19,24,25 
33:25 34:5 
41:13,17,18 
normal 28:8 
normally 22:4 
25:25 28:13 

34:19 

opinion 20:5 

noted 42:16 
novo 10:6 
number 7:4 24:7  opportunity 

opinions 19:23 

21:11 

6:19

parties 3:25
10:8 11:1

party 8:9 21:20 

26:18

24:11 25:20,21 
26:5 35:4 
36:20 37:3,4 

14:9,10 

passages 39:17
oral 1:11 2:2 3:5  penalty 4:5,9,21

19:13 

11:17 21:8

22:25 25:22 
29:21 31:18 
35:21 40:19 
Penry 7:10,13
7:21,25 11:6 
13:20 37:13 
41:16,17

people 14:22 

22:14,20 29:10 
41:9 

perceive 11:9 

17:17 

person 32:13 
37:12,18,25
38:3 40:6 41:2 
41:24 44:5 

persons 41:20 
persuasive

10:23 11:3,4
11:12 

pertaining 45:2 
Petition 5:9 

18:12 

Petitioner 1:4 
1:16 2:4,9 3:6 
42:13 

place 33:1 
placing 22:19 

42:19 

plays 26:24 
please 3:8 19:15 
point 20:22 

21:10 24:19 
26:25 42:24 
44:8 

pointed 25:16 
points 42:17 
Poland 13:2,15

13:22 14:1 
posed 44:13 
position 18:9 
29:25 44:3 

positions 40:3 
possess 15:5 
possessed 14:25 

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

possession 14:23  pre-Atkins 5:24  punished 40:6 
possible 16:7 
post 7:21 38:21 

purported 42:15 

41:3 44:3 

7:10,17 9:19 
21:4 22:8 
37:11 40:16,17  purposes 3:13 
40:18,23 41:3 
42:17 

41:10 

43:13 

17:8 

reasons 6:8,12 

11:5 15:9 
36:19 42:21,23  resolved 30:14 

research 15:24 
reserve 18:7 

7:6 39:24 40:1  REBUTTAL 

put 40:25 
put-in-jeopardy  recites 44:19 

2:7 42:12 

respect 6:15 
15:12 16:5 
30:7 42:14 
Respondent 

postconviction 
3:11 5:10 18:3 
18:11,15,25 
19:1 37:9,10 
37:19 38:7 
40:12 43:9 
44:15 45:1 
posture 10:9 
22:6 34:2,4 

post-Atkins 5:8 
6:13 7:8 8:1,6 
21:12 43:2 
44:9 

post-conviction 

5:7 

precedent 17:21 
precise 25:18 
precisely 34:4 
preclude 34:9 
precluded 22:2 
precludes 32:3 
preclusion 4:19 
9:1 15:10,11 
21:17,18,19 
22:1 26:1,9,10 
29:13 30:6 
32:2,10,11,21 
33:11 35:16 
38:24 

primarily 39:2 
prior 10:24,25 
22:7,16 24:8 
24:11 30:23 
36:4 

problem 7:21 

15:23,24 28:5 
43:7,11,15 

problems 43:7 

43:12 

procedural 22:4 

22:6 34:2,4 

procedure 28:25 
32:25 34:12,20 
34:21,25 35:5 
proceed 28:21 
proceeding 6:3 

15:3 20:1 
22:18 23:18 
24:8,12 25:2 
28:10 29:16 
31:8 32:16 
38:7 44:4 
proceedings 

18:15 

process 15:23 

16:6,6,11 19:9 

preclusive 6:11 

prong 26:4 
7:6 9:5,14 14:4  proof 35:10 
15:13,16 23:4 
24:14,14 32:1 
32:4,6 

properly 32:7 
prosecution 
17:2 36:4 
preponderance  prosecutor 
10:11 11:9 
35:16,18,21 

23:17 35:12 
presented 11:7 

prevent 15:15 

19:25 

17:22 

protection 16:19 
proven 24:3 
psychiatrist 

prevented 43:13 
previously 15:6  psychologists 

19:22 

16:20 

20:23 

17:7 

Q

question 5:23
10:16 12:8
16:5 18:12
22:21 24:5
26:5 30:7,14
33:4 35:25
36:5 39:3 42:1 
43:24 44:8,12
44:13

questions 18:6

42:6 45:5

quite 14:16,17

40:7

R

R 3:1
raise 38:25 39:2 

39:12,14

raised 24:7 39:3 

39:8

raises 37:10
ran 37:1
reach 9:8,9 37:2 
reached 9:10
reaching 35:25
read 12:3,7
13:18 26:3
30:15 41:4
reading 26:2
really 42:5
reason 4:24
33:22 34:4
39:5

reasonable 3:20

12:5 13:10
43:8

reasoning 31:21

recognize 4:20 
recognized 

36:20 

39:20,21 

25:13 31:21 

refer 8:15 
reference 6:4 

1:18 2:6 19:14 
responding 42:5 
response 24:4 
24:18 33:3 
37:16 38:18 
41:21,23

referred 39:18 
regard 40:8 
regarded 41:1 
regardless 20:23 
relating 6:12,13 

record 4:23 5:6 
5:16,22 8:8,10 
10:4,6,7,24 
11:23 18:14,23 
30:22 37:17,24  result 8:24 9:13 
38:12,19 39:16 
40:25 43:25,25  retardation 4:20 
5:4,20 6:13,17 
44:20 45:2 
6:19 7:14,17
8:1 9:19,22
10:1,12,17,22
11:2,7,11,25
12:6,11,23 
13:7,13,21,24
14:3,17 19:23 
20:5,7,9,16,18
21:7,7,14,24
22:7,9,14,24
23:22 24:3,9
26:12 27:17
28:17 30:1 
31:1 32:14
34:13,16 35:5 
35:7,11,19
36:5,22 37:12 
37:17,18,22,25
39:20,24 40:1 
41:9,21,23,25
42:4 43:2,18
45:4 

relief 43:6,6 
relitigated 7:4 
remaining 42:11 
remains 18:12 
remarks 11:25 
remedy 28:8 
remember 16:2 
render 29:21 
rendering 19:23 

relevance 13:20 
relevant 12:23 

15:9,10 

15:20 

20:5 

reopen 28:2,4 
reopened 6:6,9 

6:11 

repeated 38:21 
required 8:15 

39:1 

requirement 

retarded 3:13

4:17 8:5 11:18 
12:9 14:13
27:18,21 34:11 
38:8,13,16,20
44:1,5,21
retroactive 

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

serve 26:4 
serves 26:4 
set 4:25 
severe 43:21 
severity 7:20 
shape 34:12,25 
shot 15:4,7 28:3 
show 4:22 15:4 

44:11 

shown 38:12 
shows 3:19 
Shuffling 31:10 
significance 
23:8 25:2 
33:13 41:5 

significant 5:14 
similar 31:20,21 
simple 14:23 
simply 11:12 
14:24 15:5 
17:8,23 

Sixth 13:11 14:2 

stakes 40:7 
stand 32:8 
standard 4:25 
23:18 43:10 

22:11 27:13
29:16 32:23
subsequently
30:23 41:19

16:23 17:5

subsidiary

24:10,13 33:4 
33:7

substantial 5:17
successive 3:15

suffers 5:14,16
suffice 5:7 8:8 
sufficient 29:23

stands 32:7 
starting 20:19 
state 4:19,21 
5:10 7:15 
11:11 14:8 
15:2,5,6,8 16:7 
16:8,14 17:2 
18:9 19:3,4,20 
19:25 24:1,9 
32:15 34:12 
35:1 36:10,25 
37:9,10,16 
38:6,7,7,10,15 
38:24 40:24 
41:22,24 42:25  Sunnen 15:14
support 43:5
44:4,25 
supports 28:19
suppose 5:23
14:21 27:10

31:1 44:22
suggest 8:10
suggested 36:13
summarily

stated 27:11 
42:21 45:1 

27:23

6:22 8:17 

skills 5:17,17 

17:20 21:11 
43:5,8,12 45:6 

sole 35:9 
Solicitor 1:15 
somebody 27:6 
sorry 6:10 38:17 

statement 12:18 
13:12,15 41:4 
42:16 43:17 
44:8,11,19,24 
statements 28:6 
States 1:1,12 
14:8 20:19 
34:20 37:15 
41:12 42:20 
sort 16:23 29:20  State's 38:18 
39:18 40:3 
42:15 43:9 
statute 15:2 
statutory 12:21 

36:12 39:8 
41:11 

41:16 

12:24 

step 23:12 
STEVENS 

Supreme 1:1,12
4:13 5:1 6:16 
7:11,24 10:16 
11:24 12:1,3
13:3,12,16
14:21 15:1
18:21,24 20:7 
20:25 21:4
23:1,9,21
27:20 34:16
37:2,6,23
43:16

sure 32:18 39:13 

39:15

surely 16:24
Swenson 3:17

11:15 18:18 
43:23 44:10,17  sword 11:8

4:1 27:2 33:10 

straight 42:2
stretch 39:22,22
strikes 36:11
submitted 45:8

45:10

subsequent 6:3

T

T 2:1,1
take 5:21 17:12 

17:17 34:13

taken 17:3 23:15 

22:13,15 29:10 
32:24,25 

return 16:16 
reveals 37:18,24 

38:19 41:1 
43:25 44:20 
reverse 27:23 

45:6 

review 10:7,19 
10:21 13:13 
18:25 23:10 
25:4 43:17 
44:15 

reviewed 9:21 
reviewing 4:14 

23:19 

Revised 12:22 
reweighing 

23:11 

right 4:18 11:15 

26:8 27:4,15 
31:14,16 37:7 

rise 7:19 
risk 37:1 
ROBERTS 3:3 

19:11 29:12 
30:2 36:11 
42:10 45:7 

role 23:9,10,24 

26:23 

rule 4:3 20:18 
22:13,15,17 
27:11 28:17 
29:10,20 32:9 
32:19,19,20,21 
32:23,24 33:2 
33:9,9,10,17 
33:19 34:4,10 
34:20 

rules 15:16 16:6 

16:9,12,15 
32:25 

ruling 29:14 

run 7:20 15:21 

33:13 

15:24 

S 
S 2:1 3:1 
sake 38:2 
Sam 31:10 
satisfied 25:5 
Sattazahn 4:8 
29:22 43:21 

saying 9:12 

24:12,21 28:15 
31:6,17 32:8 
34:23 39:23 
40:13 43:1 

says 4:19 5:11 

5:24 13:22 
22:13,17 27:2 
27:17 28:8 
37:11 38:11 
41:11 

second 3:15 15:4 
15:7,10 17:23 
32:8 33:8 
36:24 42:20 
43:10 

secondly 39:19 
secure 35:22 
see 24:5,16

26:16 30:8 
seeing 40:2 
sell 14:23 
sense 4:5 9:4 
14:4 16:25 
25:24 

sentence 4:10 
9:24 16:24 
17:4,4 21:17 
21:21 23:20 
25:4 29:24 
36:23 37:5,14
40:4,13 43:20 

sentenced 6:2 
sentencer 4:9 

7:10 14:1 

sentences 40:25 
sentencing 
30:16,25 

separate 3:9 
serious 28:1 

SOUTER 8:11 
8:18 9:7,12,16 
20:10,15 24:4 
25:6,12,15,24 
31:25 32:18 
33:2,16,20,24 
34:3 39:13 
Souter's 42:6 
specific 8:12 
11:25 39:21 

specifically 5:19 
spoke 5:19,19 
stage 30:18 

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

14:15 24:25 
27:8 33:3,9 
44:17,22 

39:11 

4:13,15 

understanding  Washington 1:8 

warranted 4:11  wrongly 27:19 

14:2 

27:22 
X

x 1:2,7

26:23 

unexhausted 

17:15,25 18:2 

unique 22:6 

25:3 34:1,3,5 
United 1:1,12 

37:15 

unreasonable 
10:11 19:24 

wasn't 9:5,7 

10:15 18:14,18 
21:3 31:8 36:7 
40:11,11 41:5 
42:1 

way 17:9 21:23 

22:23 23:5 
25:3,9 32:4 
35:25 

unsworn 12:18  ways 24:22 
unusual 32:24 
weighed 26:12 
urging 21:16 
use 14:25 15:22  weighing 34:15 

42:18 

Y
years 21:1
yellow 42:21

0 
08-598 1:5
1 
101 18:11
101a 5:9
104a 5:9 18:11 
11:02 1:13 3:2 
11:54 45:9
143 38:18,18
153 38:10
16 42:22 
160 38:22 43:24 
18 42:22

39:25 
talk 7:12 
talking 5:20 

7:11,14 24:17 
24:23 40:9 
41:15 43:1 

technical 39:4 
technically 29:7 
tells 14:7 
ten 42:11 
Tennard 7:21 
terms 27:12 
test 18:19 
testified 12:19 

18:13 

testifying 19:21 
testimony 5:11 

18:19 35:8 

text 17:7 
Thank 19:11 
42:9,10 45:7 
theory 28:22 

30:4,9,11 
things 29:18 
37:13 40:21 
41:12 42:18 

think 7:8,17 8:9 
8:9 9:2 11:22 
13:1,22 14:3 
14:19 15:19 
20:13 21:10 
23:7 25:3 26:8 
27:1,18,22 
28:10,13,24 
29:4,17 30:14 
31:6 33:18,22 
35:2 36:2,15 
36:19 39:2,22 
42:7 

thinks 35:16,22 
third 3:16 
thought 11:1 
13:25 14:22 

three 3:9 5:2,3,4 
36:8,19 44:14 
three-part 14:14 

43:2 

time 10:15 14:11 

18:5,7 31:17 
41:6 42:8 43:1 

told 7:12,25 
9:20 11:14 
38:14 

tomorrow 32:17 
tracking 41:12 
traditional 

32:21 

treat 11:3,4 
treated 7:22 
13:16 29:8 

trial 4:12 9:21 

10:4 14:24 
18:13 28:9,12 
28:12,13,17 
30:20 31:11,13 
35:8 44:4 

true 21:9 
try 14:18 
trying 24:21 

26:4 

turns 24:23 

32:10 

two 6:7,11 9:3 

12:24 15:9 
24:7,11,18,23 
25:1 26:4 
29:18 37:4 
40:3,25 42:18 
43:6 

two-edged 11:8 
typical 22:4 

U 

ultimate 21:22

21:25 22:23,25 
23:3,5 24:10 
26:14 27:3
35:25 36:1
uncritically 

23:25

underlying 30:7
underscored

11:5

understand

16:11 24:15 

uses 26:10 
usually 24:21 

V

v 1:5 14:9 24:1 

27:2 33:10
vaguely 29:2
various 12:20
vastly 35:15
verdict 12:2
version 16:18
versus 3:4,17

4:1 21:11
vigorously

10:21

violates 41:8,19
violent 10:25
virtually 36:9

W

Wainwright

14:9

waiving 17:12 
want 5:21 15:4,4 

28:2,2 29:1 

wants 15:2

35:21 

warden 1:3

27:15,25 39:10 

34:24 

weight 10:18 
13:14 43:19 

went 11:10 
12:25 20:2 
25:15 

we're 17:14 
21:13 24:17,22  19 2:6
31:4 40:9,22 
41:14 

1992 11:2
1996 11:2
2 
2009 1:9

we've 32:4 34:5 
White 24:1 
win 27:2,3,10 
winner 21:17,19  2254(d)(1) 43:14
22:1 26:10,25 
2254(d)(2) 19:19
Winter 5:5,18 
39:11,12 43:4 
12:19 19:21 
43:11
20:4 35:7 
27 1:9
2929.04 12:22

Winters 18:13 
Winter's 5:11
wishes 24:15
won 21:20 27:6 

27:7 36:17

word 4:6 15:22 
words 9:8 10:23 
worked 9:18 
wouldn't 15:22

30:8

writ 39:5 43:14 
wrong 13:22 

3

3 2:4 12:25 

4

42 2:9

5
50 18:19
6

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

65 5:25 6:25 
8:13,19 9:9 

68 18:13 
69 18:13 38:1,13 

38:20 39:21 
41:2 44:1,6,21 

7


7 13:1


Official - Subject to Final Review 

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

