1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
          
GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND 
: 
              
: 
WATER CONSERVATION 
               
DISTRICT, ET AL., 
:
         
 Petitioners 
:
                       
:  No. 08-304 
          
UNITED STATES, EX REL. 
: 
                
KAREN T. WILSON. 
: 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, November 30, 2009

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:03 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ., Solicitor

 General, Raleigh, N.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners. 

MARK T. HURT, ESQ., Abingdon, Va.; on behalf of the

 Respondent. 

DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ., Assistant to the

 Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington,
 D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Respondent. 

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S 

ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                    

3


MARK T. HURT, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 
DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER, ESQ.


                    

22


 On behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Respondent 

              

35


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                   

49


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:03 a.m.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument 

first this morning in Case 08-304, Graham County Soil 
and Water Conservation District v. The United States, ex 
rel. Wilson.

 Mr. Browning.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR.

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

 MR. BROWNING:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The issue in this case is whether the word 

"administrative" as used in the public disclosure bar of 
the False Claims Act includes State audits and reports 
or is limited to Federal sources.

 If this Court were to hold that a relator 

can simply copy a State report or a State criminal 
indictment and then proceed with a qui tam action, there 
will be a proliferation of opportunistic qui tam actions 
brought under this statute.

 Such construction of the statute would have 
a devastating effect upon States, local governments, and 
the Federal fisc.

 Much of the work of State government 

involves cooperative Federal and State programs.  States 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

have been an effective partner in fighting against fraud 
and abuse with respect to those programs.  For example, 
many States have turned to computerized software to 
identify irregularities in connection with Medicaid 
billings.  California has implemented a process of 
analyzing both its Medicare and its Medicaid databases 
in order to identify doctors who bill in excess of 
24 hours in a given day.

 Under the decision below, that investigatory 
work can simply be copied by a qui tam plaintiff and an 
action brought based upon that public report.  The 
result is --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  But under your proposal a 

State that itself is guilty of fraud can, in effect, 
immunize -- if not immunize itself, at least render the 
information unusable by conducting a hearing.

 MR. BROWNING:  Well, Your Honor, the 

government certainly argues that it would result in 
State and local governments immunizing themselves from 
qui tam liability.

 With respect to States, the Fourth Circuit's 

decision expressly includes reports of the State 
government.  States, of course, are not liable under the 
qui tam provisions, as a result of this Court's decision 
in Vermont Department of Natural Resources v. United 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

States ex rel. Stevens.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And it's also the 

original source, if -- if the relator is the original 
source of the information.

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes -- yes, Justice Ginsburg, 

that -- even if there is a State report that a -- that 
a -- is in the public domain, a local government could 
still be sued under that document, if -- in spite of 
that document, by either the United States or a qui tam 
plaintiff that stands as an original source.  So --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But what about the 

argument that Congress wanted to, in its most recent 
provisions, wanted to expand qui tam availability and 
this would -- if you would -- if you include State and 
local reports, that will shrink the availability?

 MR. BROWNING:  Your Honor, there is no 

question that Congress looked at the pre-1986 public 
disclosure bar, the provisions that existed between 1943 
and 1986, and during that time frame an action, a qui 
tam action, would be barred if it was based upon 
information that was available to the -- the Federal 
Government.

 Congress decided that that cut off too many 

qui tam actions, and as a result it reached a 
compromise.  Many members of Congress wanted to totally 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

eliminate the government knowledge bar.  On the other 
hand, the United States Department of Justice at the 
time was arguing that the existing bar should remain in 
effect as a result of abusive and frivolous qui tam 
actions and their concern with respect to that.  So a 
compromise was reached in which the bar was completely 
changed.  It was changed to allow for a -- for an 
original source to bring the qui tam action, essentially 
a relief valve that addressed Congress's concerns with 
respect to cases such as United States ex rel. 
Wisconsin v. Dean.

 It also in the 1986 amendments set out 

specific sources of information and directly identified 
the type of public information that a qui tam action can 
be based upon.  That list, of course, includes many 
sources that might or might not be readily available to 
the United States Government.  For example, it includes 
reports by a news media.  A -- an obscure article in a 
weekly publication of limited circulation does not 
realistically put the government on notice of a 
particular fraud.

 The same can be true -- said with regard to 

an action filed in Federal court, a private action 
between civil litigants based upon diversity 
jurisdiction.  If that -- if there is a summary judgment 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

motion filed in that case and there are a number of 
depositions, one of which might indicate fraud, that are 
filed in that summary judgment motion and the case 
settles, that -- there will never be -- that summary 
judgment motion wouldn't be reviewed by the Federal 
district court judge.  But still, there is no question 
that the filing of that document with the Federal court 
would constitute a public disclosure under the first 
clause of the public disclosure bar.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  It would be a -- would it 
be a civil hearing?  A deposition -- you would consider 
a deposition to be a civil hearing?

 MR. BROWNING:  Your Honor, I am referring to 

a deposition that is actually filed with the court in 
connection with the summary judgment motion and the case 
then settles.  Generally, the -- the courts have --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  What -- what provision 

would it come under?

 MR. BROWNING:  Justice Scalia, the phrase 

"criminal, civil, or administrative hearing."  The 
courts have consistently read that word "hearing" as --
as including all courts' proceedings, not simply the 
hearing itself, documents that are filed with the 
clerk's office --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Documents are -- documents 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

are a hearing?

 MR. BROWNING:  Your Honor, the -- if 

Congress had meant to limit that word "hearing" to 
literally in-person oral arguments or in-person 
testimony, it -- the result would be that a criminal 
indictment could be copied by a qui tam plaintiff and an 
action brought based upon that.

 That, of course, was this Court's decision 
in United States ex rel. Marcus v. Hess.  The -- it is 
clear from the congressional history that Congress 
wanted to change that result by -- so Congress used the 
word "hearing" that obviously meant more than -- than 
simply --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Meant more than hearing?
 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Your Honor, and that's 

the part of the problem, is --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's an argument that 
doesn't go very far with me.  I mean, "hearing" means 
hearing.

 MR. BROWNING:  Your Honor, the -- the 

problem is -- is that Congress really did not speak very 
clearly at all with respect to the False Claims Act, and 
so we're -- we're left with this mess of trying to 
figure out exactly what Congress intended.

 The phrase --

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE ALITO:  In your view, must an 

administrative report be a report that is generated by 
some government unit?  Could it be a report by the 
administration of a university, for example?

 MR. BROWNING:  Justice Alito, the 

Petitioners would not read that phrase as -- that 
broadly.  When the Congress has used the word 
"administrative hearing," that would appear to indicate 
action by the government.

 And, under any of the dictionary definitions 

of "administration," clearly a State administrative 
proceeding, a State administrative report, would fall 
within the scope of the dictionary definition.  We don't 
believe the Court needs to read that language as 
including private hospitals, private universities.
 JUSTICE ALITO:  But I'm not sure why. 

You -- if -- unless "administrative" is informed by the 
other adjectives in that prepositional phrase, "in a 
congressional, administrative, or Government Accounting 
Office," presumably GAO, "report," it -- unless that is 
the -- you know, unless it's informed by those other 
references, and that's why it has to be governmental, 
I'm not sure how you limit "administrative" to 
governmental reports.

 MR. BROWNING:  Well, Your Honor, the public 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

disclosure bar uses the phrase "administrative hearing" 
twice, and it's referring to Black's Law Dictionary.  It 
defines "administrative hearing" as, essentially, a 
hearing conducted by an administrative agency.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  When you say "twice," you 

mean in the first clause that says "in a criminal, 
civil, or administrative hearing"?

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Your Honor.  And then in 

the second clause it proceeds to use the phrase 
"congressional, administrative, Government Accounting 
Office hearing, audit, investigation, or report."

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But there is a redundancy 
there if the statute means what you say it does; it says 
"administrative hearing" in both the first clause and 
the second clause.

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Your Honor, there is a 
redundancy based upon Petitioner's construction of the 
statute.  But Congress was not particularly concerned 
about redundancy in the False Claims Act.  For example, 
again it uses the phrase "congressional, administrative, 
or GAO."

 GAO, of course, is a body that reports to 
Congress.  Its head is appointed by the President.  So 
under any definition GAO would either be congressional 
or administrative, so there is a redundancy there. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

There's also --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, I think there would 
be a good lawsuit as to whether "congressional report" 
includes a GAO report.  I think that's a lawsuit.  I 
don't think it's at all as clear as you suggest.

 MR. BROWNING:  Well, Justice Scalia, let me 
also point out that there is a redundancy in connection 
with the use of "audit, report, or investigation." 
Essentially, Congress is using the same word to mean 
essentially the same thing in that clause as well.
 But yes, our reading does result in a 

redundancy in the statute.  Of course, the government 
reads this entire clause as being limited to Federal 
proceedings.  They would urge a redundancy in the 
statute as well.  But what's more important is this 
Court has consistently said that it will not read the 
same phrase as having a different meaning in the same 
sentence.

 Yes, Congress has created a redundancy, but 
that is no more egregious than the fact that it used the 
phrase "Government Accounting Office" to refer to what 
was clearly the General Accounting Office.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes, well, that argument 
does not scare the government.  I think the government 
would like to read "administrative hearing" in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

first -- in the first phrase as being limited to Federal 
administrative hearing as well.

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Justice Scalia.  That is 
their argument today.  Of course, just 11 months ago in 
United States ex rel. Poteet v. Medtronic, the 
government argued in the Sixth Circuit that a qui tam 
action should be dismissed based upon a State court 
complaint.  They convinced the Sixth Circuit to accept 
that position and dismissed that complaint on January 14 
of this year.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And that was on -- on the 

basis of the first, the first phrase rather than the 
second?

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Your Honor, based upon 

the first clause of the statute.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is this particular audit 

report we are talking about, this is the audit report 
was done by an independent accountant?  Is that --

MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Your Honor.  There are 
two audit reports -- I'm sorry, there are two reports. 
The key one is the report that identifies or asserts 
that this work at issue should have been sent out by 
bid.  That was prepared by an accounting firm for Graham 
County, North Carolina, the same auditor that was 
engaged by the county to comply with the Single Audit 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Act --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is that -- is that audit 

on file with the Department of Agriculture?

 MR. BROWNING:  Your Honor, I would have to 

go beyond the record, but yes, we have conducted a --
submitted a Public Information Act request, and 
essentially a week after the document was transmitted to 
Graham County it was transmitted to the United States 
Department of Agriculture.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  The arguments in this case, 
my initial reading of them, are more balanced than any I 
can remember, really.  For each one, there is a 
counterargument and I'm somewhat left up in the air.
 So if -- since we have to decide it, it 

should -- should I take this into account:  That if the 
Respondents are right, you are absolutely correct that 
there will be a lot of people, perhaps, who get rewards 
at the Federal Government's expense who shouldn't have 
them.  No question.  They front-run the government. 
They read the report, run in court fast, before it's in 
the newspaper.

 But if you are right, then they are going to 

have to assign people to look at these obscure 
administrative reports that didn't even get in the 
newspaper.  So they want to do that, they don't have 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

people to do it, and they say these people are 
performing a service of sorts by reading them, the 
reports, for them and telling them about it.  And there 
it is, balanced.

 But they are the ones who suffer.  You see, 
they suffer both ways.  They suffer if people don't tell 
them; they suffer if in fact too many people are getting 
unjustified rewards because the money comes from the 
Federal Government, the 10 percent, 25 percent.  So if 
they're the ones who suffer, should I not pay special 
attention to their views as to how the balance works 
out?

 MR. BROWNING:  Well, Your Honor, Justice 

Breyer, first of all, the government hasn't been 
consistent.  As we pointed out in United States ex rel. 
Poteet, they have taken the exact opposite position with 
regard to clause 1 in the first circuit.

 But the real issue here and what should 
concern the Court is the fact that there will be a 
tremendous number of opportunistic qui tam plaintiffs 
that arise.  If someone can simply go to an ongoing 
State or local government investigation, copy it, and 
bring it --

JUSTICE BREYER:  As you can tell, I have 

taken that point in. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. BROWNING:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  So my question wasn't that. 

My question was, Should I or should I not give them a 
little expertise weight on the grounds that they are the 
ones who know it best, that they are the victims?

 MR. BROWNING:  Well, I would suggest that 
the weight that should be given is to the partners of 
the Federal government, States and local governments 
that are in the trenches administering these programs, 
that will have tremendous difficulty if there is a rash 
of qui tam actions that are brought that disrupt ongoing 
Medicaid and other investigations.

 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  How will that happen? 
Meaning, how will they know, A, that the investigation 
is occurring; and second, what can they do under Federal 
or State law to require the disclose of ongoing 
investigative materials?

 I don't know -- mind you, I haven't studied 

them -- but the ones that I am familiar with never 
permit the public -- none of the Freedom of Information 
Act-type legislation, never permit the disclosure of 
ongoing investigative material.  So I am a little bit 
confused by how that would happen.

 MR. BROWNING:  Justice Sotomayor, there are 

going to be some exceptions to many States' Public 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Information Act requests, things such as attorney-client 
communications, in some cases criminal investigations. 
But for most States there will not be any sort of 
prohibition against a plaintiff's attorney filing a 
Public Information Act request saying, print out -- give 
us a copy of all printouts that show disparities and 
irregularities with regard to Medicaid billings.

 Moreover, most States are -- by law are 

required to receive complaints concerning the State's 
Medicaid program.  Those are generally processed by the 
State's system integrity program.  And those reports are 
going to be readily available to Public Information Act 
requests.

 Essentially, what this Court should be 

worried about are State employees who know where the 
documents can be located.  You can simply copy the 
document, bring a qui tam action, and produce a windfall 
for yourself, potentially disrupting the State 
investigation.  And if Congress really wanted to do 
that, if they wanted to create this rash of ill-advised 
qui tam actions, this flood that's about to fall upon 
the States, Congress should have written a little bit 
more clearly before doing so.  It isn't consistent with 
the language of the statute or with congressional 
intent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Throughout the legislative history it is 

clear that what Congress was intending to do was to have 
access to true insiders, the whistleblowers, to obtain 
information that would be confidential, that would not 
otherwise be available to the Federal Government.

 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But Congress obviously 
wanted more than that, because if Congress's intent was 
the one that you are announcing then it should have just 
permitted original sources to sue.  But that's not the 
choice it made.  It broadened the scope of qui tam 
actions to include more sources or more reward for 
individuals who don't have original information.

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Your Honor, it -- it 

added the original source provision, and it identified 
certainly sources of information and said, you cannot 
bring an action based upon those specific sources.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I --
MR. BROWNING:  Those include --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask this question: 

Is the fact that they've included the news media 
consistent with your view?

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  That seems to be a much 

more open source of information than you're raising.
 MR. BROWNING:  Exactly.  The government 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

argues that the False Claims Act is exclusively Federal, 
the public disclosure bar should therefore be read as 
exclusively Federal.  But the existence of this category 
of news media indicates that Congress did not intend the 
public disclosure bar to be exclusively Federal sources.

 There -- there -- under the government's 

theory that all of this fall -- the entire public 
disclosure bar should be read as limited to Federal 
sources, the only news media that would be able to -- to 
fall within the scope of the public disclosure bar would 
be the Voice of America, which is the only Federal news 
media currently in existence, to my knowledge.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Stars and Stripes, maybe.
 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Your Honor.  Thank you, 

Justice Scalia.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but that's not 
terribly persuasive.  In the statute there are separate 
provisions, they talk about disclosures "in criminal, 
civil or administrative hearings," "in a congressional 
administrative or Government Accounting Office report, 
or from the news media."  Simply because you want to 
limit "administrative" or not limit "administrative" 
does not mean that the other side's view requires news 
media to be modified by "Federal."

 MR. BROWNING:  Mr. Chief Justice, two points 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

I would like to make in response is:  First, these 
clauses -- and there are three clauses, the first one 
beginning with "in" and the third one beginning with 
"from" -- they do not serve different purposes.  Rather, 
they serve to identify the sources that Congress did not 
want to give rise to a qui tam action.  So this list has 
to be read as a whole.

 The second point I would like to make is 

throughout --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  We should stop calling them 

clauses.  They are really phrases.

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Your Honor.
 With respect to these three phrases, the --
throughout the legislative history, the year and a half 
that the False Claims Act was being debated, there were 
only two clauses that began with --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Phrases.
 MR. BROWNING:  -- the preposition "in" --

phrases.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. BROWNING:  -- that began with the 

preposition "in" and then "from" in connection with 
"news media."  It was only on October 3, 1986, that 
the -- when it was -- the provision was finally enacted 
by the Senate, that this second "in" was added before 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the second clause.

 So, Congress undoubtedly did not intend to 

make this 11th-hour change and have some substantive 
change to the statute.  Rather, it should best be read 
as a last-minute insert to make the clause, the three 
clauses as a whole, read and flow much better than they 
did prior to that time.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Can you tell me just as a 

practical matter, suppose -- suppose the county says, 
you know, we found out that we were defrauded by this 
contractor, and it sues the contractor.  But its suit 
doesn't cover really all of the damages, only half of 
it.  Can a qui tam action then be commenced for the 
portion that the county isn't seeking?  I mean, how does 
that work?

 MR. BROWNING:  Your Honor, if there has been 

a public disclosure --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Which there would be if 

there's a complaint filed by the county --

MR. BROWNING:  Yes.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- against the contractor.
 MR. BROWNING:  Essentially what the lower 

courts have done is they would allowed a qui tam action 
to go with regard to a completely different claim.  But 
if it were simply the fact that the public disclosure 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

covered a portion of the time period but not all of 
it --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Depends on the identity of 

the claim?

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes.  Yes.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And -- and suppose in 
their race to the courthouse, the qui tam plaintiff 
files on Monday and the county files on Tuesday?

 MR. BROWNING:  Under -- under that scenario, 

if the qui tam action is filed before the public 
disclosure, then the qui tam action would not be bourne. 
-

If there are no further questions, I'd 

like --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I, just one -- one 
quick question.  I -- I -- I just want to be sure I 
understood.  Do you draw any distinction between the 
preposition "in" and the preposition "from"?

 MR. BROWNING:  No, Your Honor.  I think it 

is -- as Justice Alito pointed out when he served on the 
Third Circuit, that some of these prepositions are very 
awkward indeed.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Part of the random nature 

of the whole provision, right?

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Justice Scalia. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

If there are no further questions, I would 
like to reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you counsel.
 Mr. Hurt.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK T. HURT
 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. HURT:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The decision of the Fourth Circuit is 

correct because the text of the False Claims Act compels 
the result, and the purpose -- and also the purposes of 
the 1986 amendments to the Act.  As the Fourth Circuit 
noted, Congress grouped the disclosure sources in 
paragraph (a) of the public disclosure bar into three 
distinct categories.  In CATEGORY 2, the term 
"administrative" which is at issue here is sandwiched 
between the terms "congressional" --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Let's begin at the 

beginning, and that is with the first phrase with the, 
what is it, "civil, criminal, administrative hearing." 
Do you as the government -- do you agree with the 
government that you have to insert "Federal" there, too? 
Or does that phrase --

MR. HURT:  No.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- include States? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HURT:  No, the -- the text of category 2 
compels the result here, although we do believe that the 
better view of category 1 is that it is also Federal as 
well, and the context -- the overall context --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Suppose -- suppose it 

isn't?  Suppose the general "civil, criminal, 
administrative" is read to mean -- include State.  Why 
shouldn't the second, if it we are picking Latin 
phrases, be read in pari materia?

 MR. HURT:  Because each of those categories 

is distinct, not only grammatically, but as far as 
function.  The first category is clearly adjudicative in 
nature.  The second is non-adjudicative.  And the third 
category is -- is news media and stands on its own.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why -- why should we read 

the second category back to alter the meaning of the 
first, rather than reading the first phrase forward to 
alter the meaning of the second?  It -- it is absolutely 
clear when you read this, "in a criminal, civil, or 
administrative hearing"; there is no limitation to 
Federal on that.  And you acknowledge that the criminal 
and civil apply to -- to State civil and criminal 
proceedings, right?  So when you read that phrase, 
"administrative" simply means, obviously means State 
administrative. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Now, why shouldn't I read that forward and 

say, well, since it means State there, it must mean 
State in the next one, in a congressional, 
administrative, or GAO report.

 MR. HURT:  The argument for category 2 is 

less compelling, we agree.  The argument for category 1 
is most compelling because these categories are distinct 
and should be looked at as separate units for that 
purpose.  You have category 2 as non-adjudicative, and 
category 1 is adjudicative.  And so you have -- you have 
distinction there.

 If you were looking at the three categories 

and, for instance, you don't say category 3 and say 
category 3 is nongovernmental, so therefore we should 
construe category 2 to include private administrative 
reports.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  The question is, what sense 

does that make?  I mean -- and I thought you said that 
the category 1, which is the criminal proceeding, civil 
or administrative proceeding, I thought you said it does 
not apply to State proceedings in your view.  You said 
that was the better view.

 MR. HURT:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  What's the state of the law 

on that?  I thought it was virtually -- what is the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

state of the law?

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You say that just as to 

administrative.  Don't you acknowledge that the criminal 
and civil apply to State criminal and civil?

 MR. HURT:  No.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You want the whole thing to 

be just Federal?

 MR. HURT:  No, we think the better view is 

that the whole category is --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  The whole category?
 MR. HURT:  -- exclusively Federal.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  I think you'd have to say 
that.  But -- but now, what is the state of law on that?
 MR. HURT:  The -- the court of appeals have 
basically gone the other way, but they have looked at it 
in a very superficial matter and have not really 
directly addressed the issue.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What are we supposed to do? 

I mean, to me it makes no sense.  We are only talking 
about things that don't get into the newspapers.  So --
and the purpose of the Federal Government's reading of 
this would be, look, we don't have people to go send 
around to every -- read every State report.  We just 
don't have that personnel.  So we rely on these 
whistleblowers and we know some will be unjustified.  I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

would think the same thing would be absolutely true of 
State criminal proceedings that don't get into the 
newspaper.  There are probably 50 -- several 
thousands -- thousands and thousands.

 So how to read these differently is a 

problem for me.  And I think that's on your side of it. 
But we are back to Justice Scalia's question, which to 
me is the -- is the question here.

 MR. HURT:  Well, the False Claims Act in 

sections, the pertinent sections 3729 and 3730, refers 
to the Federal Government many times but never with the 
modifier "Federal."  They do it through context.  And in 
fact --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Is there any history, which 

I pay attention to -- is there any legislative history 
or anything else that you can point to, to me that's 
important, showing that that first criminal hearing 
means just Federal?

 MR. HURT:  Yes, the -- the legislative 

history shows throughout -- beginning with the House and 
Senate bills and going forward that these -- the earlier 
version shows these were exclusively Federal.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  And they meant criminal 

hearing.  Criminal hearing meant Federal criminal 
hearing, not State. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HURT:  Exactly, and you have references 

--

JUSTICE BREYER:  You say "exactly."  I was 

looking for the backup for that.

 MR. HURT:  Yes.  The legislative history is 

clear on that point, and in fact if you look at the 
Senate bill that was passed August 11, you have the 
final version of paragraph (A), and then you -- which 
was enacted in law, and paragraph (B) was somewhat 
different, but it had the phrase "government or news 
media," "disclosures to government or news media."  It's 
clearly referencing back to paragraph (A) and 
categorizing those sources as either sources of capital 
"G" government, the Federal Government, or the news 
media.

 And the changes -- the subsequent changes to 

paragraph (B) give no indication that Congress's 
background understanding of that changed.  There is no 
indication of that.  And of course you have the Senate 
sponsors of the bill making the same statements that 
this was clearly Federal.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Why -- what was the 

reason for that be, given that there are so many joint 
Federal-State grant programs, like the one that's 
involved here?  Why wouldn't a State report be as much 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of a public disclosure as a Federal report?  I mean, we 
are told that this particular report was filed with the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture.

 MR. HURT:  Because it gives no -- a report 
produced by a State or a local government -- and again, 
their argument is not just State but every little local 
entity producing these reports fall under the 
category 2, according to them.  Simply the fact that a 
local or State official might be producing this report 
gives no indication that the Federal Government is 
focusing on it or looking at it.  And in fact --

JUSTICE ALITO:  You think the Federal 

Government is focusing on everything that is disclosed 
in every civil proceeding that occurs in Federal court?
 MR. HURT:  No, but Congress was selecting 

general categories and as a general category the Federal 
proceedings they thought were more likely to put the 
government on notice --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  News media, they are likely 

to be keeping track of all local newspapers as well?

 MR. HURT:  Well, I think that as a general 
category it was reasonable for Congress to assume that 
the news media disclosures would be disseminated in 
general to the general public and would put pressure on 
the government to take action, and the government would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

pay attention to that in general.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, they could have 
said "national news media."  It didn't say "national 
news media."  It said "news media."

 MR. HURT:  It said "news media."
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  It includes a local radio 

station, a local community newspaper, right?  All of 
that is included.

 MR. HURT:  Congress was drawing the lines --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  And yet, State proceedings, 

which are excluded, right?
 MR. HURT:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Even state supreme court 

cases and so forth.  It seems strange to me.

 MR. HURT:  Well, under, under -- this Court 

recognized in Cook County that the 1986 amendments 
abolished the government knowledge rule and allowed the 
qui tam relators to bring cases even where the 
government, Federal Government, had possession of 
information about the fraud.

 What we are doing here is not even -- we are 

not even sure the government has possession of these 
reports.  A lot of these reports are just sitting in 
file cabinets all around the country in these little 
administrative office buildings. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Hurt, let me just give 

you what's really troubling me about this case.  You 
have two citizens of a small town.  One of them goes to 
the hearing and gets all this information, the other one 
doesn't go to the hearing and reads about it in the 
newspaper.  The latter is a permissible plaintiff, the 
former is not; is that correct?
 MR. HURT:  Correct.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Does that make any sense?
 MR. HURT:  It does, because Congress drew 

it -- picked it as a general category.  They were 
thinking probably most likely The New York Times or 
newspapers that have actual investigative reporting 
resources, and that was what they had in mind.

 Here you have a whole --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  That doesn't show that it 

makes sense.  It just shows that Congress wasn't 
thinking clearly.  There's as difference between the 
two.

 MR. HURT:  One of the huge problems with 

Petitioners' position is it's going to sweep into 
category 2 an enormous number of reports and audits that 
the Federal Government is likely to never see, never 
come across, and you need these concerned citizens to 
go -- you want the citizens to go and look at these. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, are you 
sure that -- your argument is that this is sandwiched 
between two Federal descriptions?  Are you sure 
"congressional" is limited to Federal Congress?  The 
first definition in Black's Dictionary is "a formal 
meeting of delegates."  And I don't know -- maybe I 
should -- I don't know if all 50 States refer to their 
legislature by some term other than "Congress."

 MR. HURT:  The Petitioners have not pointed 

to an example of a State congress.  I think it's 
generally conceded that that would be Federal.  And 
also, when you look at GAO, that's clearly a Federal 
entity there as well.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'd like to go back to 

Justice Ginsburg's very first question.  I want you to 
assume that in category 1 it means State or Federal. 
Maybe you disagree, maybe you don't.  I want you to 
assume that.  If we assume that, does it make any sense 
to confine category 2 to Federal only?

 MR. HURT:  Yes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And what's the 

practical -- your answer was, well, that's because -- I 
want to know the practical rationale for that, the 
practical reasons why that should make sense.

 MR. HURT:  Because reports and audits are 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

just a totally -- a category that is much -- many 
magnitudes greater than the number of criminal, civil, 
and administrative hearings.  You are going to have 
millions of documents all over this country in file 
cabinets that are generated by local and State 
governments that there is no possibility the vast 
majority of those would ever come across the attention 
of the Federal Government.  And so you want concerned 
citizens to be looking through, monitoring their local 
governments, digging up these reports and bringing 
lawsuits based on those.  The Federal Government's 
simply not going to do it.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Which decision of ours do 
you think would prompt Congress to go back and do this 
right?  I mean, do you think that finding the way the 
government wants us to find will produce a revision of 
this really terrible text so that it makes sense; or do 
you think that finding for the other side, giving the 
government some incentive to get this fixed, would 
likely produce a proper amendment?  What do you think? 
I think the latter, to tell you the truth.

 MR. HURT:  Well, unfortunately we have to 
deal with the statute as it is.  And, you know, the --
our position uses all the clues in the statute to 
construe it.  The other side construes it in a crude 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

manner and says, let's treat it like a laundry list, 
let's not use any of the grammatical clues in construing 
this language, and also let's construe it in a way that 
ignores what Congress did in 1986, which was to abolish 
the government knowledge part.  This is a reimposition 
of that bar.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Suppose that the second 
phrase said "in a congressional, news media, or GAO 
report."  Would you read "news media" to be 
governmental?

 MR. HURT:  No, I would not.
 JUSTICE ALITO:  What's the difference 

between that and the way it's phrased now?

 MR. HURT:  Because it is -- Congress did put 

it in a separate category, so --

JUSTICE ALITO:  No, no.  Right now we have 

"in a congressional, administrative, or Government 
Accounting Office report."  And you say you have to read 
"administrative" in light of "congressional" and "GAO." 
But what if it said "in a congressional, news media, or 
Government Accounting Office report"?
 MR. HURT:  I think that --
JUSTICE ALITO:  Why wouldn't you make the 

same argument with relation to "news media"?

 MR. HURT:  I think the contextual clues 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

would be less compelling there in that situation, and 
you would have --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Why is that?
 MR. HURT:  Because you would have a category 

that would have a mixture of exclusively Federal and 
nonfederal.  Here you have a category that you can't 
construe consistently as exclusively Federal, given the 
contextual clues in there.  So as it is drafted now, if 
you look at all the clues you do have distinct 
categories that can be construed each on its own merits.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  This audit report is 

required by Federal law, isn't it?

 MR. HURT:  Yes, as are many reports, 

Medicaid reports by private recipients, today.  This 
report was only done because the local government was a 
recipient of Federal money, no different from any 
private recipient, a not-for-profit.  So there was no 
real distinction there.  It was not really a 
governmental report, in the truest sense of the word, as 
it should be construed or regarded for purposes of the 
public disclosure bar.

 And that's -- that shows the real -- one of 
the real problems of going down to the -- to the local 
and State level.  You get all of these problems where 
the recipient is generating the reports rather than the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

-- the administrator versus the recipient.  You get all 
those problems going down to this level, the local and 
State governments, and it shows the real problem with 
that.

 Again, this is the -- the overall statute is 
Federal, it's to recover the Federal Government's money. 
The statute has a strict dichotomy between the Federal 
Government and everyone else.  If the States or local 
governments are going to be qui tam relators, they bring 
it as a private person.  Thank you.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Hallward-Driemeier?

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER,
 ON BEHALF OF UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,

 SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Mr. Chief Justice, 

and may it please the Court:

 As I think the discussion this morning 

illustrates, the Federal nature of the second category, 
the phrase that is directly at issue in this case, is 
self-evident from the text.  The terms congressional and 
GAO are Federal and under the doctrine or canon of 
construction noscitur a sociis --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Let me go back to the 

other Latin phrase.  If you begin at the beginning and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

you begin with a phrase that you have no reason to say 
is modified by Federal, "civil, criminal or 
administrative proceeding," why shouldn't that drive the 
statute, what's in the first phrase?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, Your Honor, I 
-- I want to start by making clear that we disagree that 
that's a better interpretation of the first clause, but 
I will take it as the premise.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, it's a lot hard to 

say you have to put a caret mark and say -- vidi --
means Federal civil, criminal and administrative 
hearings.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  It -- it may indeed 
be harder to do that.  We think that it is warranted in 
light of the policy that motivated Congress and in light 
of other references to Federal administrative, civil and 
criminal hearings in the statute.  But even if those 
reasons which we think justify limiting the first 
category to Federal proceedings -- the Court were to 
disagree with that, that would not justify disregarding 
the clear indications of the Federal limitations on the 
second clause.  And there is no policy --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well -- I didn't 

mean to interrupt.  Clear limitations, you really have 
only one, right?  I mean you have no argument construing 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

administrative in a Federal way other than it is 
sandwiched between two other Federal --

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, Your Honor, I 
think that -- that again, as Justice Alito's question at 
the very beginning of the argument illustrated, the 
literal language of the word administrative would 
encompass hearings conducted by private hospitals or 
universities as well.  Now Petitioner es hewed that 
interpretation --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, we would just 
-- we would just take the sections from your brief today 
and say well no, you have got to read it in the context 
in which it appears and this is all Federal, which means 
it's all governmental.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  That's -- that's 

right, Your Honor, and governmental in a particular 
nature, of a particular nature, the Federal Government. 
As is the Court's decision in Cook County made clear, 
municipal governmental entities are with respect to the 
False Claims Act the same as private corporations.  The 
-- the Court recognized that municipalities are the 
recipients of many Federal dollars.  In that case the 
local governmental entity whose conduct is at issue was 
a county hospital.  And -- and county hospitals receive 
funds under the same programs that private hospitals --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE BREYER:  I just want to get your 
expertise on this, because you have probably read the 
legislative history of the 1986 amendment.  All right, 
am I right in thinking this?  If I go back and read 
it -- which I will -- I will discover, not once in this 
entire 1986 history anywhere, House, Senate or 
conference, does the word State appear in any relevant 
context?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  No.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm not right.  Okay.  So 

when it appears --

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, I guess it 

depends on what you mean by the relevant context.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  What I'm -- the relevant 

context has to do in my mind at the moment primarily in 
respect to the first clause, "criminal, civil, or 
administrative proceeding."  Is there any indication 
that those were meant to apply -- any indication that 
those were meant to apply to State as opposed to 
uniquely Federal, criminal, civil, or administrative 
proceedings?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  No, Your Honor, it 

is -- it is clear from the legislative --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Yeah.  Clear from the 

record -- clear that --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  That it was Federal 

proceedings that Congress had in mind.  And -- and if 
you would take --

JUSTICE BREYER:  And the word hearing --
MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  If you would look 

on page 19 of the --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Could you be more specific 
when you say that Congress had in mind?  Just so I know 
what you are talking about?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  I'm sorry, Your 

Honor.

the bill.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  The committee that reported 

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  I'm -- that's 

right.  That's right, Your Honor.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  In both houses or just one 

house?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, we have the 
-- the committee report and the bill that was recorded 
by the House which states specifically at that point, 
the public disclosure bar referenced information which 
the Government, capital G, disclosed the basis of 
allegations in a prior administrative civil proceeding. 
That was the House.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  The House. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well -- well, North 

Carolina has got a government, too.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Excuse me?
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  North Carolina has a 

government, too.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, as we note, 
Your Honor, the statute uses the term "Government" with 
a capital G throughout to refer to the Federal 
Government.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Same rule for 

Congress?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Excuse me?
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Same rule for 

congressional?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, congressional 

-- the -- the term congressional is frequently used 
without a capital, but State legislatures are not 
referred to as congresses.  And that is one of the 
anomalies that petitioners simply cannot explain:  why 
Congress would have thought that an administrative 
report issued by a local school board should give rise 
to the bar, but a report or a hearing conducted by a 
State legislature would not.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  There was an explanation 
for it in the opposing brief, that Congress in -- what 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was it -- 1986 didn't think that the legislature was 
generating reports, audits, as distinguished from 
administrative agencies.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well -- well, Your 

Honor, it is of course a -- a truism, that -- that 
programs are administered by the executive branch more 
than the legislative branch, but that is no reason to 
think that Congress would have meant to exclude, if 
those State legislatures did conduct a hearing with 
respect to fraud by the State, exclude that as a public 
disclosure.  The reason that Congress didn't include 
State legislative reports is because it didn't include 
State reports at all.  It was --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well that -- that doesn't 

follow like the night the day.  It could be, as it was 
explained, they didn't include State legislatures 
because they didn't think they would be generating 
relevant material.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, Your Honor, I 

-- I think that it is more likely as -- as the 
development and progress of the clause reflects, that 
Congress was focused on what does the government know 
and what does the disclosure show about the whether the 
government is already or is likely to focus on the 
fraud. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is the Justice Department 

seeking to get this -- this piece of -- of statutory 
text clarified?  I mean, you do have some operation over 
there that proposes to Congress amendments of those 
provisions that are not working out well.  Is there --
is there any effort to get this clarified?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  There -- I -- there 

are currently under consideration bills or, and as I 
understand it, they are not, there are other bills that 
are in contemplation that would revise the language of 
the statute, but -- but would not necessarily focus on 
this.  There are a number of other issues connected --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Could it make it worse?
 (Laughter.)
 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  I -- I don't know. 

But of course --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I think the question was 
has the Department of Justice, recognizing that there's 
a circuit split this very question recommended that 
Congress amend the statute in this particular --

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  I -- I don't 
believe that as of yet the department has taken a 
specific position on -- on the legislation that is 
contemplated in this particular ambiguity.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  There is one ambiguity 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

whether this clause, the first -- what we call first and 
second refers to State as well as Federal.  If the 
debate took place in a context where everyone's just 
thinking of Federal, it's not surprising they didn't put 
in the word Federal.  They don't think of everything. 
All right.  Now, that's my question.

 You started with the House.  The House to me 

does think just of Federal.  The Senate's ambiguous on 
that point --

MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  The Senate --
JUSTICE BREYER:  -- and the conference is 

yet more ambiguous on that point.  So is there 
anything -- when I look at the conference and the Senate 
versions, I'm going to say, gee, they did -- sorry, they 
did actually think of Federal and State, too, and it's 
sort of mixed up?  Or am I going to see that that 
context there is Federal?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  The context is --

is Federal.  References to States in connection with the 
act that Congress has thought about it are treating 
States like other private qui tam relators.

 They Petitioner referred to the Dean case, 

and, in fact, that was something that the -- the 
legislative history refers to, but what was offensive 
about the decision in the Dean case was that Wisconsin 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

had been the original source of the information, but had 
been barred because it had provided that information to 
the government.

 And, under the government knowledge bar, 

they had been precluded, so -- so Wisconsin would have 
been taken care of under the original source provision, 
but it doesn't reflect a view that States have a 
particular distinctive role.

 In fact, as this Court's decision in Cook 
County reflects, municipalities are treated just like 
any private corporation for purposes of the act.  They 
can be defendants, they could be plaintiffs, qui tam 
relators, but there is no reason to construe the statute 
in a way that would allow a local government, 
technically, to shield itself from qui tam suits by 
disclosing the facts that would be the underlying 
information support of the fraud claim in, perhaps, a 
report that was intended to -- to whitewash the 
situation --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Do you think that the --

when a -- when State employees want to immunize 
themselves from fraud, they are going to say, okay, we 
will disclose it where anybody --a prosecutor could pick 
it up, but we will take care of the qui tam obligation.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, Your Honor, I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

think it's important to note that, in order to be a 
public disclosure -- the second category at the very 
least -- all that needs to have happened is that 
information be disclosed to -- to one additional person.
 That -- and that makes a lot of sense when 

we are talking about disclosures of the government --
Federal government's own reports because, if the Federal 
government is already investigating and pursuing the 
fraud, one other person that finds out about it and then 
files a qui tam action on the basis of the government's 
own effort is precisely the situation that Congress 
sought to preclude.

 But it doesn't make any senses when we are 
talking about a disclosure to an individual by a State 
or local --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But there's lots of 

disclosures -- there's lots of disclosures in Federal 
reports that the government isn't pursuing.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, we think that 

the -- the disclosures -- the allegations in the types 
of reports, audits, investigations, that are referenced 
in the clause are the type that would evidence that the 
government is pursuing them.

 And -- but where a State -- perhaps a local 
school board discloses facts that might give rise to an 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

allegation of fraud in a hearing where there was only 
one or two members of the public in attendance, there is 
no reason to think that that information is going to be 
brought to the Federal government's attention.

 The purpose of the bar is to balance --

Congress was seeking to balance two rules.  One is to 
encourage qui tam relators to bring information and 
bring suit where the information was unlikely to be 
something that the government -- Federal government was 
focusing on.

 Where the Federal government was able to 
protect itself and bring this suit on its own, then 
there's no reason for the Federal government to have to 
share its recovery.

 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But why can't it -- why 

can't it protect itself if these reports are in its 
possession?  How are they any more in the -- or less in 
the government's possession than articles in the news 
media, than State, criminal, civil, and administrative 
hearings?

 You, yourself, make it very clear that the 

government -- it isn't keeping track of all of those 
other sources.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Well, Your Honor, 

Petitioners' reference to this audit being in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

possession of the government -- it's happenstance that 
this particular report, the Crisp & Hughes report, was 
sent to the Federal government official.

 But the vast majority of State and local 
governmental investigations, audits, and reports, are 
not going to be given to the Federal government, and 
even though they are -- they cite the Single Audit Act, 
which is only a very narrow subset of audits that States 
or local governments perform -- do not actually disclose 
the allegations of the fraud.

 In order to get to the actual information of 

the fraud, the -- first of all, it would have to be 
brought to the attention of the relevant Federal agency. 
Usually, the cognizant agency is the one that has the 
most money at stake, but the fraud may have to do with a 
different Federal program, so it has to be brought to 
the attention of the program whose interests are 
actually at stake.

 They have to go beyond the report that is --
that is publicly available in the clearinghouse website, 
which tells you virtually nothing, to an underlying 
report which is itself, generally, fairly vague, and all 
Petitioners say is that the working papers of the 
auditor are available to the government, not even in the 
government's possession, they are available to the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

government if it requests it.

 The government has to drill down many levels 
before it necessarily is going to know about that fraud.

 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Isn't that argument 

suggesting that the court didn't even need to reach this 
issue, even assuming that the State administrative 
reports are included in the bar?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  No -- no, Your 

Honor, I don't think so.

 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, aren't you arguing 
that what was in this audit report wasn't sufficient to 
show the fraud?  That's not your argument?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  No -- again, this 
report here did have information that was indicative of 
fraud, and this report --

JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  In which way?
 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  Excuse me?
 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Which way?  All it said 

was that this person wasn't chosen by bidding.  But 
aren't there situations in which non-bids are permitted?
 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  There -- there were 
multiple allegations.  One of the allegations underlying 
the relator's claim is that the government -- the county 
certified that certain procedures were followed that 
would have included a requirement that it be bid out, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and that it was not.

 Another was that certain work was paid for 

or billed for, but wasn't performed or was not performed 
well, so there were -- there were different allegations, 
and where that would be disclosed to a single person, 
that would constitute a public disclosure, at least with 
respect to Federal --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of course, the Attorney 
General can always bring suit, right?  I mean, all we 
are arguing about is whether this information that is in 
the in the State and local thing could be the basis of a 
qui tam suit.

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  But only if we --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  If the government finds out 
about it, the Attorney General could always bring suit, 
right?

 MR. HALLWARD-DRIEMEIER:  And what is at 
issue here is whether the Federal government is ever 
going to learn of the fraud.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Browning, you have six minutes.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR.

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS

 MR. BROWNING:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
 Justice Breyer, if I could first turn to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

your comments or your questions about legislative 
history; here, I think the legislative history tells us 
very little because of the many changes in the Senate 
version and the House version, and unfortunately, there 
was not a conference committee report, so we won't know 
the nature of the compromise.

 At most, the legislative history helps us to 

show what Congress was generally concerned about, and 
throughout the original committee, the Senate and House 
report, there is a concern about qui tam actions based 
upon public information.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Now, I agree with you about 
that.  I think it's the silence, though, that might cut 
against you.

 MR. BROWNING:  Well --
JUSTICE BREYER:  And the reason that it's --
it's basically silence -- the reason I am thinking that 
cuts against you is because of this sorting of the 
context where they are focusing on Federal.

 And, if everybody is working in that 

context, then nothing said about State means they are 
just assuming it's all applying to Federal.

 Now, what I'm looking for, you might be able 

to put your finger on, is something that shows that my 
last statement is not right. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Justice Breyer, that the 
government assumes and repeats throughout its brief that 
the False Claims Act is exclusively Federal in nature; 
therefore, you read all of its terms as essentially 
being -- being Federal.

 That, of course, does not answer what 
Congress intended with the public disclosure bar --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  When we say everybody's 

working in a certain context, how -- how many people is 
everybody?  What percentage of the House and of the 
Senate were involved in these committees that were 
drafting these bills and that issued the committee 
report?

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes, Justice Scalia, your 

point is well-taken, that this would only be --

JUSTICE BREYER:  I think in the -- it was --

it probably came out in governmental affairs in the 
Senate, which I think had 17 members at the time.

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes.
 Continuing with your -- your question, if I 
could, Justice Breyer, that there is nothing to indicate 
that the public disclosure bar should be exclusively 
Federal.

 It, of course, includes news media, which is 

not Federal.  It also includes criminal, civil, or 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

administrative hearings.  But moreover, there are many 
aspects of the False Claims Act that are not exclusively 
Federal in nature.

 The very change that we are talking about --

the -- the change to the public disclosure bar was a 
result of a push by the National Association of Attorney 
Generals to actually change the public disclosure bar to 
make sure that States could bring qui tam actions.
 That is why the public disclosure bar 

includes an original source provision.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  To -- to follow up, 

I think it was a question that Justice Breyer asked 
earlier.  Do you have any tie-breaker on your side?

 I mean, if we do decide the arguments are 
pretty much in equipoise, the suggestion was that the 
Federal government is both the beneficiary and the loser 
in the qui tam actions, from the sense they lose a 
percentage of recovery, and so we ought to let them 
strike the balance.

 What argument do you have on your side?
 MR. BROWNING:  Your Honor, again, that our 

concern from the perspective of the States -- and it's a 
concern shared by local governments -- is the reading 
that Respondents advocate will produce a flood of qui 
tam --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That's the same --
that's one of the arguments that, I think, is balanced 
on the other side.  For example, is -- do -- have we 
ever said -- and this is an unusual statute, of course, 
with a private Attorney General and all that.

 Have we -- does -- is there any authority 

for the idea that we should read it restrictively 
because of that?

 MR. BROWNING:  Your Honor, it does give rise 

to a -- a false claim will, of course, give rise to 
criminal liability.  Moreover, it is a case dealing 
with --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Have we ever -- have 

we ever said that that's a basis for reading the act 
restrictively?

 MR. BROWNING:  Your Honor, there is some 

older authority to that affect.  The specific case -- I 
apologize.  The name escapes me.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But what your claim is --

is that the government -- the Federal government is not 
the only person harmed?

 MR. BROWNING:  Yes.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And, therefore -- you know, 
we should listen to them, so long as they don't -- they 
want to come out this way, you are saying the State and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

local governments --

MR. BROWNING:  Absolutely, Justice Scalia.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- are significantly 

harmed.

 MR. BROWNING:  We are -- we are partners --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Which the Federal 

government doesn't care about, right?

 MR. BROWNING:  The Federal government has, I 

think, taken a very short-sighted view because these 
sort of qui tam actions will be very disruptive to what 
the Federal government's partners are actually doing in 
the trenches in administering these programs.

 Moreover, the Federal False Claims Act -- it 

is clear that it is not exclusively Federal.  When it 
was amended in 1986, Congress changed Section 3732(b), 
which allowed pendent State claims to be brought, so a 
State, if there is a Federal false claims action, could 
intervene to protect the State's portions of the -- the 
monies that are at issue.

 Moreover, in Section 3733(l)(7)(A), the 

civil investigative demand provisions, Congress 
expressly viewed the word "administrative" to include, 
not only Federal administrative proceedings, but State 
administrative proceedings as well.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  So your point here is -- I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

will put it in cash terms, is the Federal government, 
who will pay a lot of qui tam lawyers some percent to go 
and look through all these State criminal hearings and 
State reports and all these things that didn't get into 
the newspaper and to bring cases, so it may be cheaper 
to pay them then it would be to hire staff to do that.
 Now, your point is that they get a little 

over-enthusiastic sometimes, and they can bring actions 
that maybe not be so well-justified, and the -- the 
Federal government is going to have to hire people to 
sort those out anyway, and so would the States in that 
kind of mess.

 Is that your point?
 MR. BROWNING:  Yes.  They will be very 
enthusiastic if they can simply take a State report 
showing Medicaid fraud and bring a qui tam action.  That 
will be very disruptive to states and to local 
governments.

 Thank you, Your Honor.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 The case is submitted.
 (Whereupon, at 11:04 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

Abingdon 1:20 
able 18:9 46:11 

50:23 

abolish 33:4 
abolished 29:17 
above-entitled 

1:14 55:23 

absolutely 13:16 

23:18 26:1 
54:2 

abuse 4:2 
abusive 6:4 
accept 12:8 
access 17:3 
account 13:15 
accountant 

12:18 

accounting 9:19 
10:10 11:21,22 
12:23 18:20 
33:18,21 

acknowledge 
23:21 25:3 
act 3:14 8:22 
10:19 13:1,6 
16:1,5,12 18:1 
19:15 22:10,12 
26:9 37:20 
43:20 44:11 
47:7 51:3 52:2 
53:14 54:13 

action 3:18 4:11 
5:19,20 6:8,14 
6:23,23 8:7 9:9 
12:7 16:17 
17:16 19:6 
20:13,23 21:10 
21:11 28:25 
45:10 54:17 
55:16 

actions 3:19 

5:24 6:5 15:11 
16:21 17:11 
50:10 52:8,17 
54:10 55:8 
actual 30:13 

24:21 25:4 
38:18,19 

applying 50:22 
appointed 10:23 
argued 12:6 
argues 4:18 18:1 
arguing 6:3 

48:10 49:10 

46:25 47:7
48:11

auditor 12:24

47:24

audits 3:14

30:22 31:25
41:2 45:21
47:5,8

argument 1:15  August 27:7

Official - Subject to Final Review
Official - Subject to Final Review 

47:11 

Act-type 15:21 
added 17:14 

19:25 

additional 45:4 
addressed 6:9 

25:17 

13:3,9 28:3 

air 13:13 
AL 1:5 
Alito 9:1,5,16 
21:20 28:12 
33:7,12,16,23 
34:3 

adjectives 9:18  Alito's 37:4 
adjudicative 
23:12 24:10 
administered 

allegation 46:1 
allegations 

41:6 

administering 

15:9 54:12 

administration 

9:4,11 

administrative 

39:23 45:20 
47:10 48:22,22 
49:4 

allow 6:7 44:14 
allowed 20:23 
29:17 54:16 
alter 23:16,18 

2:2,10 3:3,8 
5:12 8:17 
11:23 12:4 
22:5 24:5,6 
28:6 31:2 
33:24 35:13 
36:25 37:5 
48:4,12 49:22 
52:20 

authority 53:6

availability 5:13

53:17

5:15

available 5:21

6:16 16:12
17:5 47:20,24
47:25

awkward 21:22
a.m 1:16 3:2

55:22

B
B 27:9,17
back 23:16 26:7

27:12 31:14
32:14 35:24
38:4

background

27:18

backup 27:4
balance 14:11
46:5,6 52:19
balanced 13:11

14:4 53:2

bar 3:13 5:18
6:1,3,6 7:9
10:1 18:2,5,8
18:10 22:14
33:6 34:21
39:21 40:22
44:4 46:5 48:7
51:7,22 52:5,7
52:9

barred 5:20

44:2

based 4:11 5:20

6:15,24 8:7

43:12 

42:25 

amend 42:20 

arguments 8:4 
13:10 52:14 
53:2

3:13 7:20 9:2,8  ambiguity 42:24 
9:11,12,17,19 
9:23 10:1,3,4,7  ambiguous 43:8 
10:10,14,20,25 
11:25 12:2 
13:24 18:19,20  amended 54:15 
18:22,22 22:16  amendment 
32:20 38:3 
22:20 23:7,20 
amendments 
23:24,25 24:4 
6:12 22:12 
24:15,20 25:3 
29:16 42:4 
29:25 32:3 
33:17,19 36:3  America 18:11  Association 52:6
36:11,16 37:1 
37:6 38:17,20 
39:23 40:20 
41:3 46:19 
48:6 52:1 
54:22,23,24 
administrator 

amicus 1:24 2:8  assume 28:22
31:16,18,18
assumes 51:2
assuming 48:6

article 6:18
articles 46:18
asked 52:12
aspects 52:2
asserts 12:21
assign 13:23
Assistant 1:22

anomalies 40:19  attendance 46:2
attention 14:11
answer 31:22 

analyzing 4:6 
announcing 

35:14 

50:22

17:8 

35:1 

advocate 52:24 
affairs 51:17 
affect 53:17 
agencies 41:3 
agency 10:4 
47:13,14 

51:6 

anybody 44:23 
anyway 55:11 
apologize 53:18 
appeals 25:14 
appear 9:8 38:7 
APPEARAN... 

ago 12:4 
agree 22:21 24:6  appears 37:13 

1:17 

50:12 

Agriculture 

38:11 

apply 23:22 

26:15 29:1
32:7 46:4
47:13,17

attorney 16:4
49:8,15 52:6
53:5

attorney-client

16:1

audit 10:11 11:8
12:16,17,20,25
13:2 34:11

56 

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review 

10:17 12:7,14 
17:16 32:11 
50:10 

basically 25:15 

50:17 

basis 12:12 

39:22 45:10 
49:11 53:14 

began 19:16,21 
beginning 19:3 

19:3 22:19 
26:20 35:25 
37:5 

behalf 1:19,20 

California 4:5 
27:3 38:1,10 
call 43:1 
38:14,24 39:4 
calling 19:10 
42:25 43:11 
49:25 50:12,16  canon 35:22 
capital 27:13 
51:1,16,21 
52:12 54:25 

39:22 40:8,17 

care 44:6,24 

54:7 

caret 36:10 
Carolina 12:24 

40:2,4 

brief 37:11 
40:25 51:2 

bring 6:8 14:23 

16:17 17:16 
29:18 35:9 
46:7,8,12 49:9 
49:15 52:8 
55:5,8,16 

cheaper 55:5 
Chief 3:3,10 

41:21 43:1 
45:22 

clauses 19:2,2 
18:16,25 22:3 
22:7 31:1 
19:11,16 20:6 
35:11,16 36:23  clear 8:10 11:5 
37:10 40:1,4 
40:10,13 49:20 
49:24 52:11 
53:1,13 55:20 

17:2 23:19 
27:6 36:6,21 
36:24 37:18 
38:23,24,25 
46:21 54:14 
clearinghouse 

choice 17:10 
chosen 48:19 

47:20 

1:18 2:3,11 3:8  clearly 8:22 9:11 
49:22 

case 3:4,12 7:1,3  CHRISTOPH... 

7:15 13:10 
30:2 35:20 
37:22 43:22,25  circuit 12:6,8 
53:11,17 55:21 
14:17 21:21 
22:9,12 42:19 
55:22 
cases 6:10 16:2  Circuit's 4:21 

29:14,18 55:5 

cash 55:1 
categories 22:15  citizens 30:3,24 

circulation 6:19 
cite 47:7 

11:22 16:23 
23:12 27:12,21 
30:18 31:12 

clerk's 7:24 
clues 32:24 33:2 

33:25 34:8,9 

cognizant 47:14 
come 7:18 30:24 

1:24 2:4,6,8,12  bringing 32:10 
3:9 22:6 35:14  broadened 
49:23 

17:10 

believe 9:14 
23:2 42:22 
beneficiary 

52:16 

broadly 9:7 
brought 3:20 

4:11 8:7 15:11 
46:4 47:13,16 
54:16 

best 15:5 20:4 
better 20:6 23:3  Browning 1:18 

24:22 25:8 
36:7 

beyond 13:5 

47:19 

bid 12:23 48:25 
bidding 48:19 
bill 4:7 27:7,20 

39:13,19 
billed 49:3 
billings 4:5 16:7 
bills 26:21 42:8 

42:9 51:12 

bit 15:22 16:22 
Black's 10:2 

31:5 

board 40:21 

45:25 

body 10:22 
bourne 21:11 
branch 41:6,7 
Breyer 13:10 

14:14,24 15:2 
24:17,24 25:12 
25:18 26:14,23 

32:7 53:25 
comes 14:8 
commenced 

20:13 

civil 6:24 7:11 
7:12,20 10:7 
18:19 22:20 
23:6,19,22,22 
24:19 25:4,4 
39:12,19 50:5 
28:14 32:2 
36:2,11,16 
50:9 51:12 
38:16,20 39:23  committees 
46:19 51:25 
54:21 

comments 50:1 
committee 

communicatio... 

51:11 

27:13 

30:25 32:9 

23:10 24:7,12 
28:16 34:10 
2:3,11 3:7,8,10  categorizing 
4:17 5:5,16 
7:13,19 8:2,15 
8:20 9:5,25 
10:8,16 11:6 
12:3,14,19 
13:4 14:13 
15:1,6,24 
17:13,18,22,25 
18:14,25 19:12 
19:18,21 20:16 
20:20,22 21:5 
21:9,19,25 
49:21,22,24 
50:15 51:1,14 
51:19 52:21 
53:9,16,22 
54:2,5,8 55:14 
buildings 29:25 

certified 48:24 
change 8:11 

certainly 4:18 

category 18:3 
22:15 23:1,3 
23:12,14,16 
24:5,6,9,10,13 
24:14,15,19 
25:9,10 28:8 
28:16,22 30:11 
30:22 31:16,19  claim 20:24 21:4 
32:1 33:15 
34:4,6 35:19 
36:19 45:2 
certain 48:24 

44:17 48:23 
53:10,19 

claims 3:14 8:22 

10:19 18:1 
19:15 22:10 
26:9 37:20 
51:3 52:2 
54:13,16,17 

clarified 42:3,6 
20:3,4 52:4,5,7  clause 7:9 10:6,9 

49:2 51:9 

17:15 

16:2 

community 29:7 
compelling 24:6 

24:7 34:1 

compels 22:10 

23:2 

complaint 12:8 

12:9 20:19 

complaints 16:9 
completely 6:6 

20:24 

C
C 2:1 3:1 
cabinets 29:24

32:5

changed 6:7,7 
27:18 54:15 
changes 27:16 

27:16 50:3 

10:14,15 11:10  comply 12:25 
compromise
11:13 12:15 
14:17 20:1,5 
36:7,22 38:16 

5:25 6:6 50:6 
computerized 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

convinced 12:8  Court's 4:24 8:8  definition 9:13 

7:22 20:23 

defines 10:3 

10:24 31:5 

definitions 9:10 
defrauded 20:10 
delegates 31:6 
demand 54:21 
department 

37:18 44:9 
cover 20:12 
covered 21:1 
create 16:20 
created 11:19 
criminal 3:17 
7:20 8:5 10:6 
1:23 4:25 6:2 
16:2 18:18 
13:3,9 28:3 
22:20 23:6,19 
42:1,18,22 
23:21,22 24:19  depends 21:3 
25:3,4 26:2,17 
26:23,24,24 
32:2 36:2,11 
36:17 38:16,20  depositions 7:2 
46:19 51:25 
53:11 55:3 

deposition 7:11 

descriptions 

7:12,14 

38:13 

31:3 

4:3 

conceded 31:11 
concern 6:5 

14:19 50:10 
52:22,23 

20:11,11,21 

24:3 31:4 33:8 
33:17,19,20 
35:21 40:14,15  Cook 29:16 
37:18 44:9 
40:16 
cooperative 

Congress's 6:9 

concerned 10:18 

17:7 27:17 

3:25 

30:24 32:8 
50:8 

connected 42:12  copied 4:10 8:6 
connection 4:4 
copy 3:17 14:22 

concerning 16:9 
concerns 6:9 
conduct 37:23 

7:15 11:7 
19:22 43:19 
Conservation 

41:9 

conducted 10:4 

13:5 37:7 
40:22 

1:4 3:5 

consider 7:11 
consideration 

42:8 

16:6,16 

corporation 

corporations 

44:11 

37:20 

correct 13:16 
22:10 30:7,8 

conducting 4:16  consistent 14:15  counsel 22:3 
conference 38:7 
31:1 35:11 
43:11,13 50:5 
49:20 55:20 

16:23 17:21 
consistently 
7:21 11:16 
34:7 

confidential 

17:4 

constitute 7:8 

confine 31:19 
confused 15:23 
congress 5:12,17  construction 
3:21 10:17 
35:23 

49:6 

construed 34:10  course 4:23 6:15 

contemplation 

court 1:1,15 

counterargum...  Crisp 47:2 
crude 32:25 
curiae 1:25 2:9 

country 29:24 

13:13 

devastating 3:22 
development 

41:21 

32:4 

county 1:3 3:4 
12:24,25 13:8 
20:9,14,19 
21:8 29:16 
37:18,24,24 
44:10 48:23 

8:8 10:22 
11:12 12:4 
27:19 41:5 
42:16 49:8 
51:6,24 53:4 
53:10 

3:11,16 6:23 
7:6,7,14 9:14 
11:16 12:7 
13:20 14:19 
16:14 22:8 
25:14 28:14 
29:13,15 35:17 
36:19 37:21 
48:5 

courthouse 21:7 
courts 7:16,21 

35:14 

dichotomy 35:7 
currently 18:12  dictionary 9:10 
9:13 10:2 31:5 
difference 30:18 

42:8 

cut 5:23 50:13 
cuts 50:18 
D

D 3:1
damages 20:12
databases 4:6
day 4:8 41:15 
deal 32:23
dealing 53:11
Dean 6:11 43:22 

43:25

debate 43:3
debated 19:15
decide 13:14

52:14

decided 5:23
decision 4:9,22
4:24 8:8 22:9 
32:13 37:18
43:25 44:9
defendants

44:12

33:12 

different 11:17 

19:4 20:24 
27:10 34:16 
47:16 49:4 

differently 26:5 
difficulty 15:10 
digging 32:10 
directly 6:13 
25:17 35:20 
disagree 31:17 

36:6,20

disclose 15:16 

44:23 47:9 

disclosed 28:13 

39:22 45:4 
49:5 

discloses 45:25 
disclosing 44:16 
disclosure 3:13 
5:18 7:8,9 10:1 
15:21 18:2,5,8 

5:23,25 8:3,10 
8:11,21,24 9:7 
10:18,23 11:9 
11:19 16:19,22 
17:2,6 18:4 
19:5 20:2 
22:13 28:15,22 
29:9 30:10,17 
31:4,8,10 
32:14 33:4,14 
36:15 39:2,8 
40:11,20,25 
41:8,11,22 
42:4,20 43:20 
45:11 46:6 
50:8 51:7 
54:15,21 
congresses 

40:18 

congressional 

8:10 9:19 
10:10,20,24 
11:3 16:24 
18:19 22:17 

construe 24:15 

32:25 33:3 
34:7 44:13 

34:20 

construes 32:25 
construing 33:2 

contemplated 

36:25 

42:24 

42:10 

context 23:4,4 
26:12 37:12 
38:8,13,15 
43:3,17,18 
50:19,21 51:9 

contextual 
33:25 34:8 
Continuing 

51:20 

contractor 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

1:22 2:7 35:13 

18:10 20:17,25  DOUGLAS 
21:11 22:13,14 
28:1 34:21 
39:21 41:11,23  drafting 51:12 
45:2,14 49:6 
51:7,22 52:5,7  drawing 29:9 
52:9 

drafted 34:8 

draw 21:17 

drew 30:10 
drill 48:2 
drive 36:3 

disclosures 

18:18 27:11 
28:23 45:6,17  D.C 1:11,24 
45:17,20 
E 
discover 38:5 
discussion 35:18  E 2:1 3:1,1 
dismissed 12:7,9  earlier 26:21 
disparities 16:6 
disregarding 

52:13 

ET 1:5 
everybody 

50:20 51:10 
everybody's 

51:8 

everyone's 43:3 
evidence 45:22 
ex 1:8 3:5 5:1 
6:10 8:9 12:5 
14:15 

exact 14:16 
exactly 8:24 

17:25 27:1,3 

example 4:2 

6:4 

36:20 

effect 3:22 4:14 

6:17 9:4 10:19 
31:10 53:3 
exceptions 
effective 4:1 
disrupt 15:11 
effort 42:6 45:11  excess 4:7 
disrupting 
egregious 11:20 
16:18 
disruptive 54:10  either 5:9 10:24 
55:17 

exclude 41:8,10 
excluded 29:11 
exclusively 18:1 

15:25 

27:13 

disseminated 

28:23 

distinct 22:15 
23:11 24:7 
34:9 

distinction 

21:17 24:11 
34:18 

distinctive 44:8 
distinguished 

district 1:5 3:5 

41:2 

7:6 

eliminate 6:1 
employees 16:15 

enacted 19:24 

44:21 

27:9 

18:3,5 25:11 
26:22 34:5,7 
51:3,22 52:2 
54:14 

Excuse 40:3,12 

48:17 

encompass 37:7 
encourage 46:7 
executive 41:6 
engaged 12:25 
existed 5:18 
enormous 30:22  existence 18:3 
enthusiastic 
55:15 

18:12 

entire 11:13 
18:7 38:6 

31:13 37:23 

entities 37:19 
entity 28:7 

equipoise 52:15 
es 37:8 
escapes 53:18 

diversity 6:24 
doctors 4:7 
doctrine 35:22 
document 5:8,9 
7:7 13:7 16:17 
documents 7:23 
7:25,25 16:16  ESQ 1:18,20,22 
32:4 
essentially 6:8 
10:3 11:9,10 
13:7 16:14 
20:22 51:4 

29:21 54:11 
dollars 37:22 
domain 5:7 

doing 16:23 

2:3,5,7,11 

existing 6:3 
expand 5:13 
expense 13:18 
expertise 15:4 

38:2 

explain 40:19 
explained 41:16 
explanation 

expressly 4:22 

40:24 

54:22 

F 

fact 11:20 14:7 
14:19 17:20 

20:25 26:13 
27:6 28:8,11 
43:23 44:9 
facts 44:16 

45:25 

fairly 47:22 
fall 9:12 16:21 
18:7,10 28:7 
false 3:14 8:22 

10:19 18:1 
19:15 22:10 
26:9 37:20 
51:3 52:2 
53:10 54:13,17 

familiar 15:19 
far 8:18 23:11 
fast 13:20 
Federal 3:15,23 
3:25 5:21 6:23 
7:5,7 11:13 
12:1 13:18 
14:9 15:8,15 
17:5 18:1,3,5,8 
18:11,24 22:22 
23:3,21 25:7 
25:11,21 26:11 
26:12,18,22,24 
27:14,21 28:1 
28:10,12,14,16 
29:19 30:23 
31:3,4,11,12 
31:16,19 32:8 
32:11 34:5,7 
34:12,16 35:6 
35:6,7,19,22 
36:2,11,16,19 
36:21 37:1,2 
37:13,17,22 
38:20 39:1 
40:8 43:2,4,5,8 
43:15,17,19 
45:7,7,17 46:4 
46:9,11,13 
47:3,6,13,16 
49:7,18 50:19 
50:22 51:3,5 
51:23,25 52:3 

52:16 53:20 
54:6,8,11,13 
54:14,17,23 
55:1,10 

Federal-State 

27:24 

fighting 4:1 
figure 8:24 
file 13:3 29:24 

32:4 

filed 6:23 7:1,3 
7:14,23 20:19 
21:10 28:2 
files 21:8,8 

45:10 

filing 7:7 16:4 
final 27:8 
finally 19:24 
find 32:16 
finding 32:15,18 
finds 45:9 49:14 
finger 50:24 
firm 12:23 
first 3:4 7:8 10:6 

10:14 12:1,1 
12:12,12,15 
14:14,17 19:1 
19:2 22:19 
23:12,17,17 
26:17 31:5,15 
36:4,7,18 
38:16 43:1,1 
47:12 49:25 

fisc 3:23 
fixed 32:19 
flood 16:21 

52:24 

flow 20:6 
focus 41:24 

42:11 

focused 41:22 
focusing 28:11 
28:13 46:10 
50:19 

follow 41:15 

52:11 

followed 48:24 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

6:21 7:2 29:20 
41:10,25 44:17 
44:22 45:9 
46:1 47:10,12 
47:15 48:3,12  Ginsburg's 
48:15 49:19 
55:16 

31:15 

generated 9:2 

32:5 

generating 

34:25 41:2,17 

getting 14:7 
Ginsburg 5:2,5 
5:11 10:5,12 
12:16 13:2 
22:18,25 23:5 
27:22 34:11 
35:24 36:9 
40:24 41:14 
42:17 44:20 
45:16 

give 15:3 16:5 
19:6 27:17 
30:1 40:21 
45:25 53:9,10 
given 4:8 15:7 

27:23 34:7 
47:6 

gives 28:4,10 
giving 32:18 
go 8:18 13:5 
14:21 20:24 
25:22 30:5,25 
30:25 31:14 
32:14 35:24 
38:4 47:19 
55:2 

goes 30:3 
going 13:22 

15:25 16:12 
26:21 30:21 
32:3,12 34:23 
35:2,9 43:14 
43:16 44:22 
46:3 47:6 48:3 
49:19 55:10 

good 11:3 
government 

formal 31:5 
former 30:7 
forth 29:14 
forward 23:17 

24:1 26:21 
found 20:10 
Fourth 4:21 

22:9,12 

frame 5:19 
fraud 4:1,14 

Freedom 15:20 
frequently 

40:16 

frivolous 6:4 
front-run 13:19 
function 23:12 
funds 37:25 
further 21:13 

22:1 

G 

G 1:18 2:3,11 
3:1,8 27:14 
39:22 40:8 
49:22 

GAO 9:20 10:21 
10:22,24 11:4 
24:4 31:12 
33:8,19 35:22 

gee 43:14 
general 1:19,23 

11:22 23:6 
28:16,16,21,24 
28:24 29:1 
30:11 49:9,15 
53:5 

generally 7:16 
16:10 31:11 
47:22 50:8 

Generals 52:7 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

H

greater 32:2 
11:24,24 12:6 
grounds 15:4 
13:19 14:9,14 
grouped 22:13 
14:22 15:8 
guess 38:12 
17:5,25 18:20 
22:21,22 26:11  guilty 4:14 
27:10,11,14,14 
28:5,10,13,18 
28:25,25 29:17 
29:19,19,22 
30:23 32:8,16 
32:19 33:5,17 
33:21 34:15 
35:8 37:17 
39:22 40:2,5,7 
40:9 41:22,24 
44:3,4,14 45:6 
45:8,18,23 
46:9,9,11,13 
46:22 47:1,3,6 
47:24 48:1,2 
48:23 49:14,18 
51:2 52:16 
53:20,20 54:7 
54:8 55:1,10 
governmental 
9:22,24 33:10 
34:19 37:14,16 
37:19,23 47:5 
51:17 

half 19:14 20:12 
Hallward-Dri...
1:22 2:7 35:12 
35:13,16 36:5 
36:13 37:3,15
38:9,12,22
39:1,5,10,14
39:18 40:3,6
40:12,15 41:4 
41:19 42:7,15
42:21 43:10,18
44:25 45:19
46:24 48:8,13
48:17,21 49:13 
49:17
hand 6:2
happen 15:13,23
happened 45:3
happenstance

hard 36:9
harder 36:14
harmed 53:21

governments 

47:1

3:22 4:19 15:8 
32:6,10 35:3,9 
47:9 52:23 
54:1 55:18 

government's 

13:18 18:6 
25:21 32:11 
35:6 45:7,10 
46:4,18 47:25 
54:11 

Graham 1:3 3:4 

12:23 13:8 
grammatical 

54:4

head 10:23
hear 3:3
hearing 4:16

7:11,12,20,21
7:23 8:1,3,12
8:14,18,19 9:8 
10:1,3,4,7,11
10:14 11:25
12:2 22:20
23:20 26:17,24
26:24,25 30:4 
30:5 39:4
40:22 41:9
46:1

hearings 18:19
32:3 36:12,17

37:7 46:20 
52:1 55:3 
helps 50:7 
Hess 8:9 
hewed 37:8 
hire 55:6,10
history 8:10 
17:1 19:14 
26:14,15,20
27:5 38:3,6
43:24 50:2,2,7

hold 3:16 
Honor 4:17 5:16 
7:13 8:2,15,20
9:25 10:8,16
12:14,19 13:4 
14:13 17:13,22
18:14 19:12 
20:16 21:19 
36:5 37:3,16
38:22 39:11,15
40:7 41:5,19
44:25 46:24 
48:9 52:21 
53:9,16 55:19 
hospital 37:24 
hospitals 9:15 

37:7,24,25

hours 4:8 
house 26:20 

38:6 39:17,20
39:24,25 43:7 
43:7 50:4,9
51:10 

houses 39:16 
huge 30:20 
Hughes 47:2 
Hurt 1:20 2:5 
22:4,5,7,24
23:1,10 24:5 
24:23 25:5,8
25:11,14 26:9 
26:19 27:1,5
28:4,15,21
29:5,9,12,15
30:1,8,10,20
31:9,20,25 

33:2 

3:24 4:18,23 
5:7,22 6:1,17 
6:20 9:3,9,19 
10:10 11:12,21  grant 27:24 

23:11 

grammatically 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

36:21 

indicative 48:14 
indictment 3:18 

15:17,22 30:13 
54:21 

investigatory 

32:22 33:11,14 
33:22,25 34:4 
34:13 
I 
idea 53:7 
identified 6:13 

17:14 

identifies 12:21 
identify 4:4,7 

19:5 

identity 21:3 
ignores 33:4 
illustrated 37:5 
illustrates 35:19 
ill-advised 16:20 
immunize 4:15 

4:15 44:21 
immunizing 

implemented 

4:19 

4:5 

important 11:15 

26:17 45:1 

incentive 32:19 
include 5:14 

17:11,18 22:25 
23:7 24:15 
41:11,12,16 
54:22 

included 17:20 
29:8 48:7,25 
includes 3:14 
4:22 6:15,17 
11:4 29:6 
51:24,25 52:10 

including 7:22 

9:15 

12:18 

51:21 

independent 

indicate 7:2 9:8 

indicates 18:4 
indication 27:17 

27:19 28:10 
38:17,18 
indications 

8:6 

individual 45:14 
individuals 

17:12 

information 
4:16 5:4,21 
6:13,14 13:6 
15:20 16:1,5 
16:12 17:4,12 
17:15,24 29:20 
30:4 39:21 
44:1,2,17 45:4 
46:3,7,8 47:11 
48:14 49:10 
50:11 

informed 9:17 

9:21 

initial 13:11 
insert 20:5 

22:22 

insiders 17:3 
instance 24:13 
integrity 16:11 
intend 18:4 20:2 
intended 8:24 
44:18 51:7 

intending 17:2 
intent 16:25 

17:7 

interests 47:17 
interpretation

36:7 37:9 

interrupt 36:24 
intervene 54:18 
investigating

45:8 

investigation
10:11 11:8 
14:22 15:14 
16:19 

investigations
15:12 16:2 
45:21 47:5 
investigative 

25:2,6,10,12 
25:18 26:7,14 
26:23 27:3,22 
28:12,19 29:2 
29:6,10,13 
30:1,9,16 31:1 
31:14,15,21
32:13 33:7,12
33:16,23 34:3 
34:11 35:11,16
35:24 36:9,23
37:4,10 38:1 
38:10,14,24
39:4,7,12,16
39:25 40:1,4
40:10,13,24
41:14 42:1,1
42:13,17,18,25
43:11 44:20 
45:16 46:15 
48:4,10,16,18
49:8,14,20,24
49:25 50:12,16
51:1,8,14,16
51:21 52:11,12
53:1,13,19,23
54:2,3,6,25
55:20 

involved 27:25 

4:9 

51:11 

involves 3:25 
in-person 8:4,4 
irregularities 

4:4 16:7 

issue 3:12 12:22 

14:18 22:16 
25:17 35:20 
37:23 48:6 
49:18 54:19 
issued 40:21 

51:12 

issues 42:12 

J

January 12:9 
joint 27:23 
JR 1:18 2:3,11 

3:8 49:22 

judge 7:6 
judgment 6:25 

7:3,5,15 

jurisdiction 

6:25 

justify 36:18,20

K

46:22 

keeping 28:20 

KENNEDY 
20:8,18,21 
21:3,6 31:14 
31:21 

Justice 1:23 3:3 
3:10 4:13 5:2,5 
5:11 6:2 7:10  KAREN 1:9 
7:17,19,25 
8:14,17 9:1,5 
9:16 10:5,12 
11:2,6,23 12:3 
12:11,16 13:2 
13:10 14:13,24 
15:2,13,24 
17:6,17,19,23 
18:13,15,16,25  know 9:21 15:5 
15:14,18 16:15 
19:10,17 20:8 
20:10 25:25 
20:18,21 21:3 
31:6,7,23 
21:6,15,20,23 
32:23 39:8 
21:25 22:3,7 
41:22 42:15 
22:18,25 23:5 
48:3 50:5 
23:15 24:17,24 

key 12:21 
kind 55:12 

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

53:23 

knowledge 6:1 
18:12 29:17 
33:5 44:4 

L

language 9:14

16:24 33:3
37:6 42:10

last-minute 20:5
Latin 23:8 35:25 
Laughter 19:20

42:14

laundry 33:1
law 10:2 15:16 

16:8 24:24
25:1,13 27:9 
34:12

lawsuit 11:3,4
lawsuits 32:11
lawyers 55:2
learn 49:19
left 8:23 13:13 
legislation 15:21

42:23

legislative 17:1
19:14 26:15,19
27:5 38:3,23
41:7,12 43:24 
50:1,2,7

legislature 31:8

40:23 41:1
legislatures

40:17 41:9,16
let's 22:18 33:1 

33:2,3

level 34:24 35:2 
levels 48:2
liability 4:20

53:11

liable 4:23
light 33:19
36:15,15

limit 8:3 9:23 

18:22,22

limitation 23:20
limitations

Official - Subject to Final Review 

magnitudes 

majority 32:7 

making 27:20 

32:2 

47:4 

36:6 

manner 33:1 
Marcus 8:9 
mark 1:20 2:5 

Medtronic 12:5 
meeting 31:6 
members 5:25 

46:2 51:18 
merits 34:10 
mess 8:23 55:12 
millions 32:4 
mind 15:18 

30:14 38:15 
39:2,8 

22:5 36:10 
materia 23:9 
material 15:22  mixed 43:16 
mixture 34:5 

minutes 49:21 

41:18 

materials 15:17  modified 18:24 
matter 1:14 20:9 

36:2 

42:11 48:3 

13:23 

need 30:24 48:5  obtain 17:3 
needs 9:14 45:3 
never 7:4 15:19 

17:6 23:24 

obviously 8:12 

occurring 15:15 
15:21 26:11 
occurs 28:14 
30:23,23 
New 30:12 
October 19:23 
news 6:18 17:20  offensive 43:24 
office 7:24 9:20 
18:4,9,11,21 
10:11 11:21,22 
18:23 19:23 
18:20 29:25 
23:14 27:10,11 
33:18,21 
27:14 28:19,23 
29:3,4,4,5 33:8  official 28:9 
33:9,20,24 
46:18 51:24 

okay 38:10 

47:3 

21:8 

11:9 18:23 
20:14 23:7 
24:2,18 25:19  money 14:8 
34:16 35:6 
28:1 29:2 
32:15 36:24,25 
47:15 
38:13 42:3 
49:9 52:14 

meaning 11:17  months 12:4 
15:14 23:16,18  morning 3:4 

means 8:18 

35:18 

newspapers 
25:20 28:20 
30:13 

ones 14:5,10 

15:5,19


ongoing 14:21 
15:11,16,22 

night 41:15 
nonfederal 34:6  open 17:24 

monies 54:19 
monitoring 32:9  nongovernme...  operation 42:3 
opportunistic 
3:19 14:20 

non-adjudicat... 

24:14 

10:13 23:24,24  motion 7:1,3,5 
24:2 26:18 
31:16 36:11 
37:13 50:21 

motivated 36:15 
multiple 48:22 

7:15 

noscitur 35:23 
meant 8:3,12,14  municipal 37:19  note 40:6 45:1 

23:13 24:9 

non-bids 48:20 
North 12:24 

40:1,4 

modifier 26:12 
local 3:22 4:19  mean 8:18 10:6  moment 38:15 
Monday 1:12 

25:16 55:23 

newspaper 

44:22 

older 53:17

13:21,25 26:3 
29:7 30:6 55:5  once 38:5 

26:23,24 38:18  municipalities 
38:19 41:8 
37:21 44:10 
looked 5:17 24:8  media 6:18 

36:21,24 

limited 3:15 
6:19 11:13 
12:1 18:8 31:4 

limiting 36:18 
lines 29:9 
list 6:15 19:6 

33:1 

listen 53:24 
literal 37:6 
literally 8:4 
litigants 6:24 
little 15:4,22 
16:22 28:6 
29:24 50:3 
55:7 

5:7,15 14:22

15:8 28:5,6,9 
28:20 29:6,7 
32:5,9 34:15

34:23 35:2,8 
37:23 40:21 
44:14 45:15,24 
47:4,9 49:11 
52:23 54:1 
55:17 

located 16:16 
long 53:24 
look 13:23 25:22 

27:6 30:25 
31:12 34:9 
39:5 43:13 
55:3 

25:15 

looking 24:12 
27:4 28:11 
32:9 50:23 

lose 52:17 
loser 52:16 
lot 13:17 29:23 
36:9 45:5 55:2 

lots 45:16,17 
lower 20:22 

M 

opposed 38:19 
opposing 40:25 
opposite 14:16 
oral 1:14 2:2 3:8 
8:4 22:5 35:13 

order 4:7 45:1 

47:11 

original 5:3,3,10 
6:8 17:9,12,14
44:1,6 50:9 
52:10 

over-enthusia... 

35:5 

55:8 

P

P 3:1

noted 22:13 
notice 6:20 

not-for-profit 

28:18 

34:17 

14:20 30:22 
32:2 42:12 

N

N 2:1,1 3:1 
name 53:18
narrow 47:8
national 29:3,3

52:6

November 1:12 
number 7:1 

ought 52:18 
overall 23:4 

Natural 4:25
N.C 1:19 
nature 21:23
O 
23:13 35:19
37:17,17 50:6  O 2:1 3:1 
51:3 52:3 
necessarily 

obligation 44:24  page 2:2 39:6 
obscure 6:18 

paid 49:2

17:20 18:4,9 
18:12,21,24 
19:23 23:14 
27:11,11,15 
28:19,23 29:3 
29:4,4,5 33:8,9 
33:20,24 46:19 
51:24 

Medicaid 4:4,6 
15:12 16:7,10 
34:14 55:16 
Medicare 4:6 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

papers 47:23 
paragraph 

22:14 27:8,9 
27:12,17 
pari 23:9 
part 8:16 21:23 

33:5 

Petitioner 37:8 

43:22 

14:16 30:21 
32:24 42:23 

procedures 

48:24 

petitioners 1:6 

1:19 2:4,12 3:9 
9:6 30:21 31:9 
40:19 46:25 
47:23 49:23 

possession 29:19  proceed 3:18 

29:22 46:17,18  proceeding 9:12 
47:1,25 
24:19,20 28:14 
36:3 38:17 
39:23 

possibility 32:6 
Poteet 12:5 

particular 6:21  Petitioner's 

10:17 

12:16 28:2 
37:16,17 42:20  phrase 7:19 8:25 
42:24 44:8 
47:2 

14:16 

potentially 

16:18 

proceedings 
7:22 11:14 
23:23 24:21 
26:2 28:17 
29:10 36:19 
38:21 39:2 
54:23,24 

practical 20:9 
31:22,23,24 

9:6,18 10:1,9 
10:20 11:17,21 
precisely 45:11 
12:1,12 22:19 
22:23 23:17,23  preclude 45:12 
precluded 44:5 
27:10 33:8 
premise 36:8 
35:20,25 36:1 
prepared 12:23  processed 16:10 
36:4 
preposition 

proceeds 10:9 
process 4:5 

produce 16:17 

particularly 

10:18 

partner 4:1 
partners 15:7 

54:5,11 

phrased 33:13 
passed 27:7 
pay 14:10 26:15  phrases 19:11 
19:13,17,19 
23:9 

29:1 55:2,6 
pendent 54:16 
people 13:17,23  pick 44:23 

19:18,22 21:18 
21:18 

prepositional 

32:16,20 52:24  purposes 19:4 
22:11 34:20 
44:11 

produced 28:5 
producing 28:7 

9:18 

prepositions 

21:21 

28:9 

pursuing 45:8 

program 16:10 

45:18,23 
16:11 47:16,17  push 52:6 

42:5 54:21 

public 3:13 4:11 
5:7,17 6:14 7:8 
7:9 9:25 13:6 
15:20,25 16:5 
16:12 18:2,5,7 
18:10 20:17,25 
21:10 22:14 
28:1,24 34:21 
39:21 41:10 
45:2 46:2 49:6 
50:11 51:7,22 
52:5,7,9 

publication 6:19 
publicly 47:20 
purpose 22:11 

24:9 25:21 
46:5 

put 6:20 28:17 
28:24 33:14 
36:10 43:4 
50:24 55:1 

Q

question 5:17

7:6 13:19 15:2 
15:3 17:19
21:16 24:17
26:7,8 31:15 
37:4 42:17,19
43:6 51:20
52:12

questions 21:13

22:1 50:1

qui 3:18,19 4:10 
4:20,24 5:9,13 
5:19,24 6:4,8 
6:14 8:6 12:6 
14:20 15:11 
16:17,21 17:10 
19:6 20:13,23

plaintiff's 16:4 
please 3:11 22:8  printouts 16:6 

35:17 

point 11:7 14:25  private 6:23 

picked 30:11 
picking 23:8 
piece 42:2 
place 43:3 
plaintiff 4:10 

5:10 8:6 21:7 
30:6 

plaintiffs 14:20 

44:12 

14:1,1,6,7 
25:22 51:9 
55:10 

percent 14:9,9 

55:2 

percentage 

51:10 52:18 
perform 47:9 
performed 49:3 

49:3 

performing 14:2 
period 21:1 
permissible 30:6 
permit 15:20,21 
permitted 17:9 

48:20 

19:8 26:16 
27:6 39:20 
43:9,12 51:15 
54:25 55:7,13 
pointed 14:15 
21:20 31:9 
personnel 25:24  points 18:25 
perspective 

person 35:10 
45:4,9 48:19 
49:5 53:21 

policy 36:15,22 
portion 20:14 

52:22 

persuasive 

18:17 

pertinent 26:10 

21:1 

President 10:23  programs 3:25 
pressure 28:24 
4:2 15:9 27:24 
presumably 
37:25 41:6 
54:12 

9:20 

pretty 52:15 
pre-1986 5:17 
primarily 38:15  proliferation 
print 16:5 

progress 41:21 
prohibition 16:4 

3:19 

prompt 32:14 
prior 20:7 39:23  proper 32:20 
proposal 4:13 
proposes 42:4 

9:15,15 24:15 
34:14,17 35:10  prosecutor 
37:7,20,25 
43:21 44:11 
53:5 

44:23 

54:18 

protect 46:12,16 

probably 26:3 

30:12 38:2 
51:17 

problem 8:16,21 

26:6 35:3 

provided 44:2 
provision 7:17 
17:14 19:24 
21:24 44:6 
52:10 

portions 54:18 
position 12:9 

problems 30:20  provisions 4:24 
5:13,18 18:18 

34:23,24 35:2 

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

21:7,10,11 
29:18 35:9 
43:21 44:12,15 
44:24 45:10 
46:7 49:12 
50:10 52:8,17 
52:24 54:10 
55:2,16 

quick 21:16 

R 

reason 27:23 
36:1 41:7,11 
44:13 46:3,13 
50:16,17 
reasonable 

reasons 31:24 

28:22 

36:18 

rebuttal 2:10 
22:2 49:22 
receive 16:9 

37:22 

42:18 

37:24 

recognized 

29:16 37:21 
recognizing 

R 3:1 
race 21:7 
radio 29:6 
raising 17:24 
Raleigh 1:19 
random 21:23 
rash 15:10 16:20 
rationale 31:23 
reach 48:5 
reached 5:24 6:6  recommended 
read 7:21 9:6,14 
11:16,25 13:20  record 13:5 
18:2,8 19:7 
20:4,6 23:7,9 
23:15,19,23 
24:1 25:23 
26:5 33:9,18 
37:12 38:2,4 
51:4 53:7 
readily 6:16 

recorded 39:19 
recover 35:6 
recovery 46:14 

redundancy 

42:19 

52:18 

38:25 

16:12 

reading 11:11 

13:11 14:2 
23:17 25:21 
52:23 53:14 

reads 11:13 30:5 
real 14:18 34:18 
34:22,23 35:3 

realistically 

6:20 

really 8:21 

13:12 16:19 
19:11 20:12 
25:16 30:2 
32:17 34:18 
36:24 

40:8 

reference 46:25 
referenced 

39:21 45:21 

references 9:22 

27:1 36:16 
43:19 

referencing 

referred 40:18 

referring 7:13 

27:12 

43:22 

10:2 

refers 26:10 

43:2,24 

10:12,17,19,25  report 3:17 4:11 
11:7,12,14,19 
refer 11:21 31:7 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

reflect 44:7 
reflects 41:21 

44:10 

regard 6:22 
14:17 16:7 
20:24 

regarded 34:20 
reimposition 

33:5 

rel 1:8 3:6 5:1 
6:10 8:9 12:5 
14:15 

14:8 

rewards 13:17 

4:22 5:15 6:18 
9:24 10:22 
12:20,20 13:24  right 13:16,22 
21:24 23:23 
14:3 16:11 
24:16 28:7 
29:7,11 32:15 
33:16 36:25 
29:23,23 30:22 
37:16 38:3,4 
31:25 32:10 
38:10 39:15,15 
34:13,14,25 
41:2,12,13 
43:6 49:9,16 
45:7,18,21 
50:25 54:7 
46:16 47:5 
48:7 55:4 
request 13:6 

rise 19:6 40:21 
45:25 53:9,10 
ROBERTS 3:3 

recipient 34:16 
34:17,25 35:1 

relation 33:24 
relator 3:16 5:3 
recipients 34:14  relators 29:18 

35:9 43:21 
44:13 46:7 

relator's 48:23 
relevant 38:7,13 

38:14 41:18 
47:13 
relief 6:9 
rely 25:24 
remain 6:3 
remainder 22:2 
remember 

13:12 

render 4:15 
repeats 51:2 

requests 16:1,13 

16:5 

48:1 

require 15:16 
required 16:9 

requirement 

34:12 

48:25 

requires 18:23 
reserve 22:2 
resources 4:25 

30:14 

respect 4:2,21
6:5,10 8:22 
19:13 37:19 
38:16 41:10 
49:7 

5:6 9:2,2,3,12  Respondent
1:21,25 2:6,9 
9:20 10:11 
11:3,4,8 12:17 
22:6 35:15 
12:17,21 13:20  Respondents
18:20 24:4 
13:16 52:24 
response 19:1 
25:23 27:25 
28:1,2,4,9 33:9  restrictively
33:18,21 34:11 
34:15,19 39:19  result 4:12,18
40:21,22 44:18 
47:2,2,19,22 
48:11,14,15 
50:5,10 51:13 
55:15 

4:24 5:24 6:4 
8:5,11 11:11 
22:11 23:2 
52:6 

53:7,15

reported 39:12 
reporting 30:13 
reports 3:14 

reviewed 7:5 
revise 42:10 
revision 32:16 
reward 17:11 

18:16 22:3 
31:1 35:11 
36:23 37:10 
40:1,4,10,13
49:20 52:11 
53:1,13 55:20 

role 44:8 
rule 29:17 40:10 

40:13 

rules 46:6 
run 13:20 
S
S 2:1 3:1 
sandwiched
22:16 31:2
37:2

saying 16:5

53:25

says 10:6,13
20:9 33:1

Scalia 4:13 7:10 

7:17,19,25
8:14,17 11:2,6 
11:23 12:3,11
18:13,15 19:10 
19:17 21:23,25
23:15 25:2,6
25:10 28:19
29:2,6,10,13
30:16 32:13
39:7,12,16,25
42:1,13 49:8 
49:14 51:8,14

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

54:10 55:11 
sorting 50:18 
sorts 14:2 
Sotomayor 

15:13,24 17:6 
46:15 48:4,10 
48:16,18 

sought 45:12 
source 5:3,4,10 
6:8 17:14,24 
44:1,6 52:10 

sources 3:15 

6:13,16 17:9 
17:11,15,16 
18:5,9 19:5 
22:13 27:13,13 
46:23 

speak 8:21 
special 14:10 
specific 6:13 
17:16 39:7 
42:23 53:17 

39:20 
spite 5:8 
split 42:19 
sponsors 27:20 
staff 55:6 
stake 47:15,18 
stands 5:10 

27:16 

55:21,23


subset 47:8 

subsequent 

35:3 38:7,19 
40:17,23 41:9 
41:10,12,13,16 
43:2,15 44:21 
45:14,24 46:19  substantive 20:3 
47:4 48:6 
49:11 50:21 
53:25 54:16,17  sues 20:11 
54:23 55:3,4 
55:15 

suffer 14:5,6,6,7 

sue 17:9 
sued 5:8 

14:10 

statement 50:25 
statements 

sufficient 48:11 
suggest 11:5


27:20 

15:6 

states 1:1,8,15 

suggesting 48:5 

52:15 

1:24 2:8 3:5,22  suggestion 
3:25 4:3,21,23 
5:1,9 6:2,10,17  suit 20:11 46:8 
46:12 49:9,12 
8:9 12:5 13:8 
14:15 15:8,25 
49:15 
16:3,8,22 
22:25 31:7 
35:8,14 39:20 
43:19,21 44:7 
47:8 52:8,22 
55:11,17 

suits 44:15 
summary 6:25 

7:3,4,15 
superficial 

25:16 

State's 16:9,11 

54:18 

station 29:7 
statute 3:20,21 

silence 50:13,17 
simply 3:17 4:10  specifically 

53:19,23 54:2 
54:3,6


Scalia's 26:7 
scare 11:24 
scenario 21:9 
school 40:21 

45:25 

18:10 

scope 9:13 17:10 

second 10:9,15 
12:13 15:15 
19:8,25 20:1 
23:8,13,16,18

33:7 35:19 
36:22 43:2 
45:2 

Section 54:15,20 
sections 26:10 
26:10 37:11 
see 14:5 30:23 

43:16 

seeking 20:14 

42:2 46:6 

selecting 28:15 
self-evident 

35:21 

Senate 19:25 

26:21 27:7,19 
38:6 43:10,13 
50:3,9 51:11 
51:18 

Senate's 43:8 
send 25:22 
sense 24:17 

senses 45:13 
sent 12:22 47:3 
sentence 11:18 
separate 18:17 

24:8 33:15 
serve 19:4,5 
served 21:20 
service 14:2 
set 6:12 

settles 7:4,16 
share 46:14 
shared 52:23 
shield 44:15 
short-sighted 

54:9 

show 16:6 30:16 

41:23 48:12 
50:8 

showing 26:17 

55:16 

shows 26:20,22 

30:17 34:22 
35:3 50:24 
shrink 5:15 
side 26:6 32:18 
32:25 52:13,20 
53:3 

side's 18:23 
significantly 

54:3 

7:22 8:13 
14:21 16:16 
18:21 20:25 
23:24 28:8 
32:12 40:19 
55:15 

single 12:25 
47:7 49:5 
sitting 29:23 
situation 34:1 
44:19 45:11 

situations 48:20 

Sixth 12:6,8 
small 30:3 
sociis 35:23 
software 4:3 
Soil 1:3 3:4 
Solicitor 1:18,23 
somewhat 13:13 

27:9 

sorry 12:20 

39:10 43:14 
sort 16:3 43:16 

25:19 30:9,17 
31:18,24 32:17  six 49:21 
34:19 45:5 
52:17 

support 44:17 
supporting 1:25 

2:9 35:15 

suppose 20:9,9 
21:6 23:5,5,6 
33:7 

supposed 25:18 
supreme 1:1,15 

29:13 

sure 9:16,23 
21:16 29:22 
31:2,3 52:8 

surprising 43:4 
sweep 30:21 
system 16:11 

T

T 1:9,20 2:1,1,5 

22:5 

take 13:15 28:25 

36:8 37:11
39:3 44:24
55:15

23:14 

10:13,18 11:12 
11:15 12:15 
16:24 18:17 
20:4 32:23,24 
35:5,7 36:4,17 
40:7 42:11,20 
44:13 53:4 

statutory 42:2 
Stevens 5:1 

Stars 18:13 
start 36:6 
started 43:7 
state 3:14,17,17 
3:24,25 4:14 
4:19,22 5:6,14 
9:11,12 12:7 
14:22 15:16 
16:15,18 23:7 
stop 19:10 
23:22,24 24:2 
strange 29:14 
24:3,21,24 
strict 35:7 
25:1,4,13,23 
strike 52:19 
26:2,25 27:25 
28:5,6,9 29:10  Stripes 18:13 
29:13 31:10,16  studied 15:18 
32:5 34:24 

17:17,19,23 
21:15 30:1,9 

submitted 13:6 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

taken 14:16,25 

42:22 44:6 
54:9 

talk 18:18 
talking 12:17 
25:19 39:9 
45:6,14 52:4 

tam 3:18,19 

4:10,20,24 5:9 
5:13,20,24 6:4 
6:8,14 8:6 12:6 
14:20 15:11 
16:17,21 17:10 
19:6 20:13,23 
21:7,10,11 
29:18 35:9 
43:21 44:12,15 
44:24 45:10 
46:7 49:12 
50:10 52:8,17 
52:25 54:10 
55:2,16 

technically 

44:15 

tell 14:6,24 20:8 

32:21 

telling 14:3 
tells 47:21 50:2 
term 22:15 31:8 

40:7,16 

terms 22:17 
35:21 51:4 
55:1 

terrible 32:17 
terribly 18:17 
testimony 8:5 
text 22:10 23:1 
32:17 35:21 
42:3 

Thank 18:14 

22:3 35:10,11 
49:20,24 55:19 
55:20 

theory 18:7 
thing 11:10 25:6 

26:1 49:11 
things 16:1 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

54:12 

25:20 55:4 

treating 43:20 
tremendous 
14:20 15:10 
trenches 15:9 

troubling 30:2 
true 6:22 17:3 

think 11:2,4,5 
11:24 21:19 
25:8,12 26:1,6 
28:12,21 31:10 
32:14,15,18,20 
32:21 33:22,25 
35:18 36:14,18 
37:4 41:1,8,17 
41:20 42:17 
43:5,8,15 
44:20 45:1,19 
46:3 48:9 50:2  Tuesday 21:8 
50:13 51:16,18 
52:12 53:2 
54:9 

truest 34:19 
truism 41:5 
truth 32:21 
trying 8:23 

26:1 

turn 49:25 
turned 4:3 
twice 10:2,5 
two 12:20,20 
18:25 19:16 
30:3,19 31:3 
37:2 46:2,6 

type 6:14 45:22 
types 45:20 

U 

underlying 

44:16 47:21 
48:22 

27:18 

understood 

21:17 

undoubtedly 

20:2 

unfortunately 

32:22 50:4 

uniquely 38:20
unit 9:3
United 1:1,8,15
1:24 2:8 3:5 
4:25 5:9 6:2,10 
6:17 8:9 12:5 
13:8 14:15
35:14

units 24:8
universities 9:15

37:8

thinking 30:12 

30:18 38:4 
43:4 50:17 

third 19:3 21:21 

23:13 

thought 24:18 

24:20,25 28:17 
40:20 43:20 

thousands 26:4 

26:4,4 

three 19:2,13 
20:5 22:14 
24:12 

tie-breaker 

52:13 

time 5:19 6:3 

20:7 21:1 22:2 
51:18 

times 26:11 

30:12 

today 12:4 34:14 

37:11 
told 28:2 
totally 5:25 32:1 
town 30:3 
track 28:20 

46:22 

transmitted 

13:7,8 

treat 33:1 
treated 44:10 

university 9:4 
unjustified 14:8  wants 32:16 
warranted 

25:25 

16:19,20 17:7 

unusable 4:16 
unusual 53:4 
urge 11:14 
use 10:9 11:8 

33:2 

uses 10:1,20 
32:24 40:7 
Usually 47:14 
U.S 28:3 
V

v 1:7 3:5 4:25 
6:11 8:9 12:5 

Va 1:20
vague 47:22
valve 6:9
vast 32:6 47:4 
Vermont 4:25
version 26:22
27:8 50:4,4
versions 43:14
versus 35:1
victims 15:5
vidi 36:10

18:23 23:3
24:21,22 25:8 
44:7 54:9

viewed 54:22
views 14:11
virtually 24:25

47:21

Voice 18:11

W
want 13:25
18:21 19:6
21:16 25:6
30:25 31:15,17
31:23 32:8
36:6 38:1
44:21 53:25

wanted 5:12,13

5:25 8:11

36:14 

Washington 

1:11,23 

wasn't 15:2 

30:17 48:11,19 
49:3 

Water 1:4 3:5 
way 25:15 32:15 

33:3,13 37:1 
44:14 48:16,18
53:25 

ways 14:6 
website 47:20 
week 13:7 
weekly 6:19 
weight 15:4,7 
well-justified

55:9 

well-taken 

51:15 

We'll 3:3 
we're 8:23,23
whistleblowers 

17:3 25:25 
whitewash 

44:18 

Wilson 1:9 3:6 
windfall 16:17 
Wisconsin 6:11 

43:25 44:5 

word 3:12 7:21 
8:3,12 9:7 11:9 
34:19 37:6 
38:7 39:4 43:5 
54:22 

work 3:24 4:10 

12:22 20:15
49:2

working 42:5
47:23 50:20
51:9

works 14:11
worried 16:15
worse 42:13 

understand 42:9  view 9:1 17:21 
understanding 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

wouldn't 7:5 
27:25 33:23 
written 16:22 

X 
x 1:2,10 
Y 

Yeah 38:24 
year 12:10 19:14 
York 30:12 

3729 26:10 
3730 26:10 
3732(b) 54:15 
3733(l)(7)(A)

54:20 

4 

49 2:12 

5 

50 26:3 31:7 

0 

08-304 1:7 3:4 

1 

1 14:17 23:3 
24:6,10,19 
31:16 
10 14:9 
10:03 1:16 3:2 
11 12:4 27:7 
11th-hour 20:3 
11:04 55:22 
14 12:9 
17 51:18 
19 39:6 
1943 5:18 
1986 5:19 6:12 
19:23 22:12 
29:16 33:4

38:3,6 41:1

54:15 

2 

2 22:15 23:1 

24:5,9,15 28:8 
30:22 31:19 

2009 1:12 
22 2:6 
24 4:8 
25 14:9 

3 

3 2:4 19:23 
24:13,14 

30 1:12 
35 2:9 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

