Official

1

       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
LYNWOOD D. HALL, ET UX.,          :
            Petitioners           :  No. 10-875
       v.                         :
UNITED STATES                     :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Tuesday, November 29, 2011

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SUSAN M. FREEMAN, ESQ., Phoenix, Arizona; for
   Petitioners.
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
   General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
   Respondent.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

2

                     C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
SUSAN M. FREEMAN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondent                      27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
SUSAN M. FREEMAN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     54

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

3

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                     (10:03 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-875, Hall v. United
States.
            Ms. Freeman.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF SUSAN M. FREEMAN
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MS. FREEMAN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            Bankruptcy estates incur taxes when they
generate income.  The Government's attempt to limit the
effect of the farm sale statute, section 1222(a)(2)(A),
alters that fundamental principle in corporate chapter
11 cases and in all bankruptcy cases, as it requires
this Court to construe the administrative section in the
priority section of the Bankruptcy Code that do apply in
all of those cases.
            In a chapter 12 case, the bankruptcy estate
consists of more than just the assets that existed as of
the date of filing.  They also consist of all of the
income that is earned thereafter, wages -- Mrs. Hall's
wages as a convenience store clerk are part of the
bankruptcy estate -- the proceeds from selling crops --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Does it include debts

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

4

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

incurred after the filing?
            MS. FREEMAN:  From the period -- from the
petition filing date until the confirmation of the plan,
yes, it does.  Those debts are incurred in the operation
of the estate --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Debts -- debts that were
incurred after that date?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Yes, Your Honor.  So that, for
example, in operating an estate, you would incur a light
bill as well as incurring taxes.  All of the operating
expenses are incurred by the bankruptcy estate and are
payable from the income and from the estate assets
during that period from the petition filing date until
the confirmation of the plan.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is that true of --
            MS. FREEMAN:  That's the administrative
period.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is that true of State --
you said taxes.  Is it true of State taxes?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Yes, Your Honor, it is true of
State taxes as well as Federal taxes.  County taxes, for
example.  Property --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So, in this -- in this --
we're dealing with a capital gains tax on the sale of
the farm.  Suppose a State had a similar tax; it also

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

5

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

taxed the gain on the sale.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Correct, Your Honor, and it
did in this particular case.  So, there would be State
taxes on the capital gains, and those would also be
administrative expense priorities, except for the farm
sale provision here, which demotes that priority if the
debtor is able to earn a discharge.  And if so, then
those farm sale taxes are demoted in priority and may be
discharged under a plan of reorganization.  They would
share pro rata with the other prepetition claims of the
bankruptcy estate.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And who would file the State
tax return?  Would it be filed by the estate or would it
be filed by the debtor?
            MS. FREEMAN:  The debtor and the estate are
one in a -- in a reorganization case.  And so, the
taxpayers, Lynwood and Brenda Hall, would file the tax
return.  The way that it would actually be administered,
Your Honor, is shown by the Knudsen case.  And,
basically, there would be a tax return that includes all
of the income, the wages, the crop sale proceeds and so
forth.  And then it would compute it with the capital
gains tax, and there would be a separate pro forma
return that does not include the capital gains tax.
            Those would be sent to the Special

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

6

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Procedures Unit of the IRS, so that somebody there would
know how to deal with it and would be able to count the
difference.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, how do you deal
with section 346?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Section 346, Your Honor,
basically makes the State taxes consistent with the
Federal taxes.  When you have --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I read 346(b) to say
that, unless the estate is a separate tax entity under
the code, that the debtor, not the estate, pays State
and local taxes.  This is totally contrary to what
you're saying, but the language of 346(b) --
            MS. FREEMAN:  Your Honor --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- basically answers the
question against you with respect to State and local
taxes.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Justice Sotomayor, I do not
think it does, in the sense -- in this sense:  The
bankruptcy -- section 346(b) made the State and local
taxes consistent with Federal taxes, and when you have a
bankruptcy estate that consists only of assets on the
petition filing date, then you have a separate taxable
entity with a separate tax I.D. number that is set up.
But under the Federal bankruptcy -- under the Federal

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

7

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

tax code, under section 1399, whenever the bankruptcy
estate had income during the course of the estate,
during the administration period, as well as the assets
on the petition filing date, then it's a single taxable
entity.  And so, that single taxpayer would pay it.
            Section 346 doesn't say what assets are used
to pay the tax.  That's a matter of bankruptcy law.  The
debtor, the individual taxpayer, is going to file the
tax return under State and local and Federal law, but
he's going to use the estate assets because that's all
there is.  He doesn't have any other assets.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, the debtor is going
to pay.
            MS. FREEMAN:  The debtor pays --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  And so, when this says
whenever the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 provides that
no separate taxable estate shall be created in a case
concerning a debtor under this title --
            MS. FREEMAN:  Right.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- chapter 12 doesn't
create a separate taxable estate.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Correct.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  And that the income,
et cetera, shall be taxed to or claimed by the debtor
under State or local law.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

8

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MS. FREEMAN:  That's correct, Your Honor.
It's going to be on the debtor's tax return.  The
debtor's the one who will have the deductions, and the
deductions would include administrative expenses of the
bankruptcy estate.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  This -- this is hard for
me to understand, given the last line.  "The estate
shall be liable for any tax imposed on such corporation
or partnership, but not for any tax imposed on partners
or members."
            By the logic of that last sentence, it seems
to me that the preceding section is not looking to the
estate, but to the debtor, to pay the taxes.
            MS. FREEMAN:  The debtor pays the taxes, but
with estate assets because those are the only assets
that exist.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, why -- why would the
last sentence be necessary?
            MS. FREEMAN:  The last sentence, I believe,
Your Honor, deals with a partnership, and in a
partnership case, just as outside the bankruptcy, the
partnership files the tax return and the partners
individually are the ones who pay the taxes.  But they
pay the taxes.  If a partner is in its own bankruptcy
estate with the only assets that exist -- all of his

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

9

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

income, all of his wages, all of those are property of
the bankruptcy estate, and he would use it to pay the
tax.  He's not individually liable any more than if a
trustee were individually liable.  The trustee in a
bankruptcy case uses estate assets to pay taxes.  And
so, what --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But it says the estate --
the estate's not liable for the tax imposed on the
partners.  So, if it's not liable, how can it ask for a
discharge?
            MS. FREEMAN:  The -- the debtor ultimately
is the one who receives a discharge.  Discharge
provisions are separate than the -- than the tax payment
issues.  Tax payment deals with what moneys are used to
make the payments of taxes during the course of
administration of a bankruptcy case.  The debtor
receives a discharge in a chapter 12 case if it
complies -- if he complies with all of the provisions of
his plan of reorganization and then receives a
discharge.
            There are exceptions to the discharge.
Certain prepetition taxes are excepted from a discharge
and would carry through during the -- postpetition.  But
the farm sale statute provides that these particular
administrative expenses would be subject to a discharge

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

10

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

if he complies with the rest of the provisions of the --
of his plan of reorganization.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  What happens in a 12 or 13
case, just your typical case -- and this must arise
fairly often -- in year 1, on January 1, the farm or the
ship or whatever is the subject goes into chapter 12 or
13.  They have a lot of pre-1 debt.  Then in year 2 and
year 3, the proceedings are going on, but the farm is
operating, so is the ship, or whatever.  And they
earn -- they run up debts during that time.  People give
them fertilizer -- they give them, you know, all kinds
of things.  So, they have a lot of debts that they've
run up in that time.  Now it draws to a close, at the
end of year 3.
            Now, what about those debts that have been
run up during that time?  There isn't a separate
bankruptcy estate for tax purposes, I understand.  But
if Joe Smith has loaned his farm some money during that
time, and it comes time to look at the future income to
subtract the prepetition debts, does his debt get wound
up and get some priority in that process, or is he just
at the end of the queue?
            MS. FREEMAN:  He does get priority in that
process, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  Well, if he

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

11

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

gets priority, then why in heaven's name shouldn't a tax
get priority?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Your Honor --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  That's your point.
            MS. FREEMAN:  -- it does have that priority.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And if it does, then, of
course, the exception that Senator Grassley put in
applies to that.  So, that's a question I should ask
them, given your answer.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Yes, Your Honor.
            And, in fact, those taxes, along with the
light bill and any other administrative expenses, would
be paid when due over that 2- or 3-year period.  And
that's certainly what happens in the large chapter 11
bankruptcy case, like a Delphi bankruptcy case or, you
know, a General Motors, for instance.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but I mean,
your -- it is a question for you, because these things
don't go for 2 or 3 years, do they?  I thought typically
they are wrapped up very quickly, and that's to the
advantage of the debtor.  And your position with respect
to postpetition taxes has the potential of extending
them beyond the kind of quick turnaround that helps
everybody.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Respectfully, Mr. Chief

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

12

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Justice, in chapter 12 cases, often the bankruptcy
estate will drag on for 2 or 3 years, and certainly for
longer than 1 year and much longer than a chapter 13
case, because you do have sales of assets.  You have
debts that need to be restructured.  You have leases
that end up getting rejected.  You have a -- new crop
subsidies that are applied for and received.  The
chapter -- the -- the amicus curiae brief of the
professors has a study, and shows how long chapter
12 cases generally last.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How long was this --
this one?
            MS. FREEMAN:  This case, Your Honor, because
of this appeal, has lasted from 2005 through today.  So,
a considerable period of time.  And all of the taxes
during that period of time and all of the operating
expenses during that period of time are administrative
expenses and are payable in the ordinary course.
There's an administrative expense claim if in fact they
haven't been paid.
            And if -- if one of the creditors has not
received payment or if a taxing authority has not
received payment, it can move for payment as an
administrative priority.  It can ask that it be paid
now, and it can ask that the case be dismissed if it

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

13

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

hasn't been paid.  So, you do have that highest
priority, and this is consistent with the Court's
Nicholas case, 1966, which preceded the Bankruptcy Code
and which the Bankruptcy Code really incorporated and
continued with.
            In the Nicholas case, the Court said that
all taxes incurred by a debtor-in-possession and
incurred during the administration period have
administrative expense priority, and they are payable by
the debtor-in-possession as an officer of the court, as
-- as the administrator of the estate under 28 U.S.C.
section 960, which is still in effect today, and which
requires that the person in control of the bankruptcy
estate, whether it's a trustee or a
debtor-in-possession, pay those taxes, but not pay them
with his own money.
            As the Court said in the Nicholas case, you
pay them with the assets of the estate.  The individual
trustee is not responsible; the individual
debtor-in-possession is not responsible.  The
responsibility of the debtor-in-possession really is a
matter of the discharge provisions, whether he's going
to be separately discharged or if he has responsible
person liability because he's -- he's -- you're dealing
with trust fund taxes, with wages from some other

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

14

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

person --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  The -- what you say to me
makes a great deal of sense, but I think one of their
stronger arguments is, it may make sense.  But,
unfortunately, even if Senator Grassley and the others
wanted it, they didn't do it right technically.  They
didn't amend the right provision of the code, and
whoever's fault that is, is beside the point.  So,
there's no way to get the words to get to the result
that you want.
            I'll tell you the best I could do -- and I
see a problem with it -- is you say that -- you go to
1226(b)(1), and it says that any unpaid claim of the
kind specified in 507(a)(2); and 507(a)(2) talks about
administrative expenses and refers you to 503; and 503
includes taxes and administrative expenses; and then you
say it's -- at 1220 whatever it is, what did I just say?
            MS. FREEMAN:  1226?
            JUSTICE BREYER:  1226.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Uh-huh.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  It's like an Abbott and
Costello movie.
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE BREYER:  The -- the -- you get to
1226(b)(1), and it says that that's -- shall be paid any

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

15

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

unpaid payments of that kind, including administrative
expenses.  And -- and so, then you have 1222(a), which
refers to that, and then the amendment applies to that.
            But, now, what I did was I sloughed over by
talking too quickly -- it talked about "claim" -- of a
"claim," it says, any unpaid claim of the kind specified
in 507(a)(2).  And when you look to 507(a)(2), it talks
about claims and expenses; and then in (2) there, it
refers to administrative expenses.  And so, I think the
Government says they left out what was key to you, the
word "expenses."
            All right?  Now, I don't know what I'm doing
when I start tinkering with this Bankruptcy Code.  And
is that just true, what they say?  It does leave out the
word "expenses."  Will -- will we cause untold harm if
we were to read the word "claims" there to include
expenses?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Your Honor, respectfully, you
would cause untold harm because this provision applies
in corporate chapter 11's and in all bankruptcy cases.
They all have the administrative expense provision, 503,
and they all have section 507.  So, you would stop taxes
from being payable in a big Delphi --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No, but I was thinking,
suppose I do it by reading the word "claims" --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

16

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MS. FREEMAN:  Right.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- in 5 -- in 1226, when it
says "any unpaid claim" --
            MS. FREEMAN:  Right.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Which is what you want to
have include taxes --
            MS. FREEMAN:  And claim --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- to read that word as
including both the 507(a) claims, which are in (1)(a),
(1)(b), and -- and also administrative expenses in (2).
Can I do that?
            MS. FREEMAN:  You can, Your Honor, because
"claim" is defined in section 101 of the code as right
to payment.  "Creditor" is defined as someone who has a
claim that arose prepetition, which necessarily means
"claim" is broader and not just one that arose
prepetition.
            There are numerous provisions of the
Bankruptcy Code that refer to administrative expenses as
claims, including 1226.  And so, the Court can see that
those are interpreted consistently.
            This Court, in the Hartford Underwriters
case, referred to administrative claims, calling them
claims as well as administrative.  And really what the
Government's argument here is that administrative

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

17

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

expenses are outside of bankruptcy altogether, that
they're not part of what get paid in a bankruptcy case.
And that's simply untrue.
            If the Court looks at the provisions with
respect to requirements of a plan, including 1222(a),
which apart from the exception, it says that
administrative expenses are required to be paid.
Section 1228 says that a plan discharges all debts
including debts provided for -- allowed under section
503.  Debt is a liability on a claim.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  But that doesn't answer my
first question, what actually happens?  I mean, this
isn't the first year of chapter 12 and 13.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Right.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And there must be instances
where the -- where the debts run up postpetition are
pretty big --
            MS. FREEMAN:  And --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- and there isn't enough
money to go around, and they're going to have to be paid
out of future income along with the prepetition debts.
And it can be done, but there is a question of
priorities, and the Government is saying there is no
priority -- I think they're saying that -- for a
postpetition debt.  And -- and you're saying, oh, but of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

18

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

course there is.
            So, what actually happens?  There have been
perhaps thousands and thousands of cases, haven't there?
            MS. FREEMAN:  And administrative expenses do
get paid in the ordinary course.  And if the taxes
aren't paid --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Get paid, if necessary, by
assigning priorities?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Yes.  They have administrative
priority, and they do get paid.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And so, to look to a
hornbook on bankruptcy law which just tells me what
you've just said, I would look where?
            MS. FREEMAN:  We -- we've cited a number of
hornbooks that have exactly that provision.  What's
particularly interesting with respect to the
Government's position here is that, at the Government's
urging, section 507(a)(8) of the Bankruptcy Code, that
provided for prepetition priority, eighth priority, for
prepetition taxes within a short period before the
Bankruptcy Code, was amended; so that all of those
eighth priority taxes during the year of the filing, the
straddle year -- here the Halls filed their bankruptcy
case in August; so, during the entire period from
January 1 through August when they filed -- are treated

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

19

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

as administrative expenses.  And yet, now they say
administrative expenses mean nothing, and they don't get
any payment as administrative expenses.
            Why urge the change?  Why make all of those
year-of-filing taxes into administrative expenses and
then say administrative expenses have no meaning?
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm going to ask the
Government this, but are you aware of any circuit split
or any cases below that have accepted the Government's
arguments that chapter 12 involves prepetition debts
only and that don't pay administrative expenses
postbankruptcy?
            MS. FREEMAN:  There are several cases that
have interpreted section 1222(a)(2)(A).  None of them
have addressed the change in 507 or what that means.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  A different question.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Okay.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  The Government's now
saying that chapter 12 involves only prepetition claims.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Right.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  And it's basically, by
that argument, saying it doesn't involve and can't
involve administrative expenses.  That's how I read
their argument.
            MS. FREEMAN:  I think that's --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

20

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  And so, I'm asking is --
are there any courts that you're aware of below who have
been presented with this argument, outside of the tax
situation, who have accepted it?
            MS. FREEMAN:  I --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Who have failed to give
priority to administrative expenses?
            MS. FREEMAN:  None outside of this tax
situation.  And, Your Honor, I don't believe that any of
the cases that have followed the Government's
interpretation of this farm sale statute, 1222(a)(2)(A),
have addressed the impact on other administrative
expenses and other tax claims.  The wages -- the taxes
on wages that are incurred, the lottery winnings that an
individual farmer might have, and the fact that those
have administrative priority and that those would need
to be paid off the top as administrative expenses --
none of the cases address those.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm not asking you to
defend their position.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Okay.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  It's just such a broad
position that I'm trying to understand if there's a
split out there that we are unaware of.
            MS. FREEMAN:  And the problem, Your Honor,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

21

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

is that it does have these broad impacts, and none of
the courts have really addressed it.  And I don't
believe that certainly the --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, can we go back to
the issue that gives me trouble?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Yes, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  How to read "incurred by
the estate."  If the estate doesn't pay taxes --
            MS. FREEMAN:  To incur --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- how could it be
incurred by the estate when Congress, if it intended
what you're saying it intended, could have said
"incurred during bankruptcy"?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Incurred -- to incur is to
take on liability.  So, at the point in time that income
is generated during a bankruptcy case, then liabilities
are taken on at the same time, the operating expenses,
the taxes.  Here, you had a clear estate asset, the Hall
farm.  It was sold.  That generates an income tax
liability, a capital gains liability.  And so, that
is -- it's tied to the income, which is here property of
the estate.  The -- the important thing is --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But -- but the problem is
that, with an exception that -- that's not applicable
here, section 1399 of the Internal Revenue Code provides

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

22

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

that no separate taxable entity shall result from the
commencement of a case under Title XI of the United
States Code.
            How can you incur a tax when you are not a
separate taxable entity?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Your Honor, because you are a
single taxable entity instead of a separate taxable
entity.  The whole reason for the separate taxable
entity section was when you had a bankruptcy estate that
consisted only of the assets on the petition filing
date, and the debtor earns income independently.  So,
the debtor would independently have tax liability, and
that would be separate from the estate.
            But when you have a reorganization case, a
corporate chapter 11 or a chapter 12, then the estate
and the debtor are a single taxable entity, and the
debtor is the one that files the tax returns or the
debtor-in-possession, the trustee, if there's a trustee
in control --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, if -- if that
exception were intended, the provision I read contains
an exception.  It says "except in any case to which
section 1398 applies."  1398 applies to chapter 7 and
chapter 11 where the debtor is an individual.
            MS. FREEMAN:  That's --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

23

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Now, if there is an
additional exception for chapter 12 of the sort that you
allege, why wasn't that put in there?
            MS. FREEMAN:  There is no exception, and
there shouldn't be an exception, Your Honor.  They're
within section 1399, just like corporate chapter 11
debtors.  The debtor is the one that files the tax
return.  The debtor and estate are one.  All of that
corporate earnings, all of the wages, the lottery
winnings, the farm sale proceeds, all of those are part
of the estate.  And so, those --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What does it mean, then, to
say that no taxable -- "no separate taxable entity shall
result"?  What does it mean, unless it means that it is
not the estate which incurs the tax?
            MS. FREEMAN:  Your Honor, respectfully,
there's a difference between taxable entity and estate.
The estate is a collection of property.  That is the
collection of property that's operated by the
debtor-in-possession or trustee in a reorganization
case.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, but they -- but they
would not have needed the exceptions for chapter 7 and
chapter 11 where the debtor is an individual if what you
say is true, if indeed a bankrupt estate is, as you say,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

24

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

not an entity at all.
            MS. FREEMAN:  You need that exception, Your
Honor, in a chapter 7 case for an individual because the
individual earns income that is wholly independent from
the estate, that's not part of the estate.  So that the
bankruptcy estate consists of the assets the individual
owns on the petition filing date.  The trustee
administers those, sells the assets, may incur some
liability for selling the assets for taxes, pays those,
and deals with those, while the individual continues to
earn income postpetition that's his own income.  And so,
you need to have a separate taxable estate in those
instances.
            But when the income that's earned during
this whole period of administration, from the petition
filing date to the confirmation date of the plan, is all
property of the estate, then the debtor, the corporate
chapter 11 debtor or the -- the corporate chapter 12
debtor or the individual chapter 12 debtor is incurring
that income as part of the estate.  It's all property of
the estate in a chapter 12 case.  Section 1207 says
that.
            And so, the debtor is the one that files the
tax returns, and the debtor uses the estate assets to
make the payments of the taxes and to make the payments

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

25

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

on the light bill and to make the payments on all of the
other expenses of administration during this period of
administration.  That's what this Court held in
Nicholas, and that continues on in effect today.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But, Ms. Freeman, wouldn't
it be fair to say then that the taxes are incurred by
the debtor and payable out of the estate?  Why would it
say "incurred by the estate"?
            MS. FREEMAN:  It uses the term "incurred by
the estate" I think based upon the same kind of language
that this Court used in Nicholas, as incurred by the --
incurred during the administration period, incurred by
the debtor-in-possession.  It's -- it's really a broad
sense of all of the kinds of bankruptcy estates in a
chapter 7 case.  It -- this refers to all bankruptcy
cases.
            And so, in a chapter 7 case, it's going to
be just the assets that exist there on the petition
filing date.  If it's a corporate case, it's going to be
the -- all of the assets that are generating the income
during the course of the administration of the chapter
12 or the chapter 11 case or even the chapter 13 case.
            In chapter 13 cases, you have a specific
additional provision, section 1305, that deals with
taxes payable postpetition, and it also includes

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

26

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

postconfirmation.  So, it gives the government a broader
kind of right so that --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The argument that is made
against your position -- 1305 was one of the provisions
that was featured, I think, both in the Ninth Circuit
and the Tenth Circuit, and their position seems to be
that 1305 gives the government an election.
            MS. FREEMAN:  It does, Your Honor, provide
for an election for the government.  What's important is
that in a 13 case, unlike a 12 or an 11, you have a very
short period of administration.  They have to file their
plan within 15 days.  It's confirmed within a month or
two.  And it's very unlikely that April 15th is going to
fall within that short period of time, and that's when
the Government says that your taxes are incurred.  So,
you're going to have a -- it's unlikely you're going to
have an administrative expense claim for your income
taxes during the period of administration of a chapter
13.  It's a very short period.
            So, the government has the option not only
during the administration period, but also during the
whole period of the plan, to elect to say:  All right,
there have been some big commissions earned here, and I
want to go ahead and collect from the estate rather than
just wait and see what the debtor earns afterwards.  And

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

27

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

so, it then can go ahead and file a claim and ask to
have that claim paid out of the bankruptcy estate, and
it really gives the government much broader rights than
it does in a normal chapter 11 or a chapter 12 case or a
7.
            If I may reserve the remainder of my time
for rebuttal.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Ms. Freeman.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Shah.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH
               ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
            MR. SHAH:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            The postpetition income tax liability at
issue in this case is not subject to section
1222(a)(2)(A) and thus cannot be treated as a
dischargeable nonpriority debt for two reasons.  First,
consistent with the structure of chapter 12, a chapter
12 plan is limited to prepetition debts and does not
cover postpetition debts, including administrative
expenses.  Rather, postpetition administrative expenses
are paid separately through section 1226(b)(1), which
contains no farm sale exception.  Because section

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

28

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1222(a)(2)(A) strips priority only from a subset of
claims covered by a chapter 12 plan and does not alter
which debts fall within that plan, it cannot apply to
the postpetition tax liability at issue.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So, what -- what farm
sales would be included?  What farm sales would get this
benefit that Senator Grassley obviously wanted them to
have?
            MR. SHAH:  Your Honor, it would be
prepetition sales.  That is, any capital gains tax
incurred from a prepetition sale, those would be
priority expenses covered under a chapter 12 plan under
section 1222(a)(2), because they fall under -- they're
an -- they're a priority claim under section 507(a).
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Does that -- does
that make sense, though, in terms of if you're talking
about farmers and fishermen and you're talking about the
treatment of their central asset, whether it's the farm
or typically the boat, and they either want to try --
they want to try to save the farm or the boat, and they
go into bankruptcy, and the big issue is how that
asset's going to be treated.  And your position is it's
not in the bankruptcy at all; it's outside of it.  That
seems to me to be at least counterintuitive.
            MR. SHAH:  Well, Your Honor, two points:

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

29

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

One, as a practical matter, chapter 12 is a
reorganization provision.  This is not a provision just
designed to allow farmers to get out of the business of
farming.  So, often what will happen is that farmers
will try to reorganize some of their farm sale assets,
sell some of their livestock, change their farming
operation, to see if they can save it outside of
bankruptcy first.
            All of those sales -- an example of that is
the Knudsen case.  Knudsen is the only circuit case to
go Petitioners' way.  In Knudsen, it not only involved
the postpetition tax liability of the type at issue in
this case; it also had a significant prepetition tax
liability component in that case based upon just what I
was explaining, the farmer trying to -- trying to change
their farming operation to save the farm without having
to go into bankruptcy.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But also, I gather,
it's a fairly typical situation where you have farmers
that might want to sell part of the farm.  You know,
they have dairy and corn operations or something, and
they sell one to try to preserve the other.  And that's
-- that's exactly the sort of thing that should be
considered in the bankruptcy context.  And yet, your
position says we're going to treat it outside the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

30

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

bankruptcy.
            MR. SHAH:  Well, Your Honor, it certainly
happens within the bankruptcy, and I'm not disputing
your point that that may -- that may arise in a
bankruptcy case just like it arises in this case.  And
it will be dealt through the bankruptcy.  That is, the
sale will happen, and it will be approved by the
bankruptcy court.  The question is, how do you treat the
capital gains tax arising --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But that's a big
deal if you're deciding how the plan's going to work,
whether they -- I mean, what the amount was here was big
for the farmer, and the idea of, well, we're going to
pretend that's not at issue here seems to me to be --
again, not -- not to make a lot of sense.
            MR. SHAH:  Your Honor, we're not asking, to
be clear, to pretend that that's not there.  How the tax
liability would be dealt with under the Government's
view is at the time the debtor moves to sell the farm
asset during the bankruptcy case -- like in this case,
that sale of the farm asset generated $960,000.  That
was the sale price.  The capital gains tax liability in
this case is $29,000.  If they would have set aside from
that $960,000 sale price $29,000 to pay the capital
gains tax debt, that would resolve the issue.  We're not

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

31

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

saying that you ignore it.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But there's every reason to
think, Mr. Shah, that what Congress was worried about
here was cases in which the bankruptcy plan would not be
approved at all because there were very high capital
gains taxes that would result from a sale and that that
was the problem that everybody was focused on, was
making sure that farmers could take advantage of section
12.  So, it's a little bit odd -- it's actually more
than a little bit odd.  It's a lot odd to read the
statute to apply not in that context but only as to
people who have somehow managed to sell their property,
you know, 18 months before going into bankruptcy.
            MR. SHAH:  Sure.  So, Your Honor, when you
say that everybody was focused on this problem, we have
the evidence of exactly one person as to what one
legislator thought that this bill would do.  That's
Senator Grassley.  Now, admittedly, Senator Grassley's
statements do indicate an intent on his part to reach
postpetition taxes.  But the pre-existing statutory
framework does not permit that result.
            What section 1222(a)(2)(A) does is it allows
the debtor to strip priority from a certain subset of
governmental claims, such as prepetition taxes, and
there is no doubt that Senator Grassley correctly

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

32

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

understood that's how section 1222(a)(2) --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  But it's not just Senator
Grassley.  Your interpretation makes this provision,
1222(a)(2)(A), of very, very little practical value.
And you think that's what Congress intended?  Not only
would it -- would it mean that postpetition capital
gains on the sale of part of the farm or the entire farm
would -- would be outside of the bankruptcy, outside of
the bankruptcy, but all of the prepetition capital gains
would be outside of it too, unless they occurred in a
previous taxable year.
            MR. SHAH:  A couple of responses, Your
Honor.  First of all, I don't think it's sort of a null
set or a vanishingly small set.  There's the Knudsen
case which qualifies.  Of -- in the professors' amicus
brief, on page 10a of their amicus brief, they provide a
chart of representative cases involving postpetition tax
liabilities.  They cite eight cases in their chart on
page 10a.  Three of those eight cases involve
significant prepetition tax liabilities, even under the
narrower definition of "prepetition."
            But -- but to get to your larger point, even
to the extent it might be narrower than what Congress
intended, Congress certainly knew how section 1222
operated in the sense that it would strip priority from

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

33

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

certain claims that are already entitled to priority
under a chapter 12 plan, such as prepetition taxes.  And
both sides agree that that's how section 1220(a)(2)(A)
works.  There's no dispute about that.
            The dispute is about whether this
postpetition tax liability comes within the chapter 12
plan in the first place.  That dispute turns on
pre-existing code provisions, part of the 1978 Act, part
of the 1980 Act, and the 1986 Act.  Whatever deference
Senator Grassley is owed as to the operation of section
1220(a)(2)(A) itself, he's owed no deference whatsoever
as to the proper interpretation of those pre-existing
code provisions.
            It's our position that those pre-existing
code provisions, section 503(b), section 346, and
section 1398, 1399, all lead to the result that
postpetition tax liabilities are not an administrative
expense within the meaning of the code.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How about employment tax?
Employment taxes?
            MR. SHAH:  Your Honor, employment taxes
arguably could be treated differently.  Now, as a matter
of discretion, the IRS has chosen not to treat them
differently.  That is, they don't try to seek those as
administrative expenses.  I think there would be an

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

34

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

argument -- and we set this -- set forth the argument in
a footnote of our brief.  What the potential argument
would be is that they could be deemed an administrative
expense not because they're incurred by the estate, but
under the other part of the definition of an
administrative expense under 503(b)(1)(A).
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Just following up on
that --
            MR. SHAH:  Sure.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- I'm looking for what I'd
call past practice, where there must be a lot --
            MR. SHAH:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- that would shed some
light on this.  So, I see -- your point that we cannot
call these taxes administrative expenses is because when
that's defined in 503 for the entire code --
            MR. SHAH:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- it talks about
administrative expenses incurred by the estate.
            MR. SHAH:  Yes, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And so, you're saying here
are three people who incurred their own taxes.  One is
section -- section 12; one is section 13; and one is
individuals in section 11.  Is that right?
            MR. SHAH:  Ah --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

35

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE BREYER:  At least that's my --
            MR. SHAH:  Yes.  Yes, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.  Okay.  So, we have
three categories of people that -- where the taxes,
literally taken, they incur postpetition taxes.  Now,
the bite would come up if it turned out, when they were
getting around to settle these things, that there isn't
enough money to pay fully the postpetition or let's --
no, to pay fully domestic support obligations, wages,
and also Federal taxes.
            Isn't that -- that's where it's going to
show up, because the question will be, do you have to
shave the Federal taxes because they're coming in to be
paid as an administrative expense priority which is
only there as number 2, I think, in light of number 1.
Or do you not shave them at all?  If they're liable
personally, there isn't any reduction in the amount of
the Federal Government -- if they're allowed because
it's one of the estate's expenses basically, using the
estate very, very loosely, then they would have to take
a reduction, too.  Am I right?  Are you following it?
            MR. SHAH:  I think so.  Let me try to say
what I think what you're saying.  Under chapter 12 and
13, if it is in fact a priority claim, whether it's a
priority claim or an administrative expense, those have

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

36

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

to be paid in full.  There isn't an ability for the
court to shave those --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No.  The administrative
expenses don't have to be paid in full if there isn't
enough money for them too in unsecured claims for
domestic support obligations, because administrative
expenses is the second priority; it isn't the first.
            MR. SHAH:  Okay.  So, Your Honor, there is a
misunderstanding I think in what you are saying.  That
is, in a chapter 12 plan, the priorities matter more in
terms of the relative priority between category 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, and 8.  They matter more in a chapter 7
liquidation where there's a finite set of assets being
liquidated, and then those will be paid out in the
priority that you're talking about.  In a chapter 12 or
13 case, there's going to be a plan proposed, and that
plan will be confirmed.
            Now, under 1222(a)(2), any of those priority
claims, whether it's first priority or eighth priority,
has to be set out and to be paid in full in order for
the plan to be confirmed.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.
            MR. SHAH:  So, the plan won't be confirmed
at all.  There isn't a matter of ordering the priorities
in a chapter 12 or 13 case.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

37

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            Now, if I could turn back to Justice
Sotomayor's question.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Could you turn back
to -- before you answer my other question, could you
finish your thought on what you're doing with wages?
Are they given priority or aren't they?  If you're
saying they're not -- if we accept your reading of this,
employee wage taxes are not administrative expenses.
            MR. SHAH:  Right.  Well, Your Honor, they're
certainly not administrative expenses under the
definition of incurred by the estate.  That would be the
relevant issue in this case.  They may come under the
other definition of administrative expense; that is, the
costs -- necessary costs of preserving the estate, like
wages.  If you consider the employment payroll tax
that's paid simultaneously as the wage, as part and
parcel of the wages, you could get at it that way.  But,
again, that doesn't have anything to do with the
"incurred by the estate" language.
            The "incurred by the estate" language, as
you properly point out, is relevant -- the most relevant
provisions as to whether a tax is incurred by the estate
are sections 346(b) and 1398 and 1399 --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  How does that work,
Mr. Shah?  Because this was a part of your argument that

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

38

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

I have to say sort of tripped me up --
            MR. SHAH:  Okay.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  -- because you define
"incurred by the estate" by reference to those
provisions, but those provisions were enacted 2 years
and 4 years after the phrase that you are trying to
define.
            MR. SHAH:  Sure.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  So, it must have been a very
prescient Congress.
            MR. SHAH:  Well, Your Honor it was a
prescient Congress, because in the legislative history
that we cite, they say -- and it's not true that all of
the -- separate taxable entity rules weren't implemented
until afterwards.  There -- section 346, which dealt
admittedly only with State and local taxes, they set up
rules, the same separate taxable entity rules that
Congress later enacted 2 years later, to apply to State
and local entities.  And that's the provision 346 that's
reprinted in our appendix at page 2.
            What Congress said when they passed 346 is
"we fully" -- "we fully expect" -- and as they had
originally drafted them in the 1978 Act, to also apply
to Federal taxes.  But it decided to pull them out of
the Act so as not to step on the shoes of the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

39

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

jurisdiction of the Ways and Means Committee.  That's
the explanation that Congress provided and then 2
years --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But you're saying that as of
1978, there was kind of an idea in people's heads about
this separate tax entity or at least in some people's
heads, but that idea had never been converted into any
statutory language.  And you're suggesting that we
should take this phrase "incurred by the estate" and
read it as if they were referring to something real that
was in a statute.
            MR. SHAH:  It's not simply taking out of
their head, Your Honor; the section 346 rules which are
parallel and apply to State and local taxes, those
didn't come out of nowhere.  Those came out of prior IRS
rulings as to when there is a separate taxable entity in
a bankruptcy case.
            There were pre-existing -- before the 1978
Act, in particular, there was a 1972 IRS revenue ruling
which set forth the rules about when there is a separate
taxable entity, whether the Act should -- whether the
tax should be taxed to the estate or to the debtor.
Section 346 in the 1978 Act codified those rules for
State and local income taxes.
            In the intervening 2 years between 1978 and

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

40

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1980 when Congress consummated the step and extended
those to Federal taxes, the IRS was still applying its
pre-existing practice based on its revenue ruling.  So,
there wasn't a gap where there was no guidance as to
whether -- how to determine whether these were incurred
by the estate or not.
            Courts may -- courts readily would have
looked, I presume, to the 1972 Treasury ruling and the
parallel 346 rulings in that gap time until the
legislative guidance came along and then codified that
result with respect to Federal taxes.
            Now, I think to --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Can I ask another
question --
            MR. SHAH:  Sure.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  -- while we are on this?
Because the 1398, 1399 would suggest that we're looking
to this separate taxable entity, but if I understand
correctly, in the corporate context, the IRS actually
does not look to that.  It looks to just the question of
who's filing the tax return.
            So, if that's the case, aren't you, in that
very large bankruptcy context, losing your textual
anchor entirely?
            MR. SHAH:  No, Your Honor.  There are two

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

41

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

ways that a bankruptcy estate can incur a tax.  One is
if it's a separate taxable entity, then it -- then it's
responsible for the taxes.  All the taxes are taxed to
the estate, and it has to file the return and pay it.
            The other way is if it has the duty to file
the return.  That's a different provision of the
Internal Revenue Code, section 6012(b)(3).  6012(b)(3)
also appears in the Government's -- in the appendix to
the Government's brief.  What 6012(b)(3) on page 14a
says is that, in a bankruptcy case, the trustee of a
corporate bankruptcy estate shall make the return for
income in a corporation.
            What this Court held in Holywell, which both
sides cite and both sides agree, is that when a
corporate trustee has a duty to file a return under
6012(b)(3), it also has a duty to pay the tax.  That is,
it incurs -- it's liable for or incurs the tax.
            So, there are two ways to incur the tax:
One is separate taxable entity; the other way is if the
code imposes an obligation on the bankruptcy estate
to -- to file and pay the tax return.  That's the other
way to interpret it, and that's why all the chapter 7
and 11 corporate cases that are cited by Petitioners are
inapt.  In those cases, the postpetition tax liabilities
are, in fact, incurred by the estate.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

42

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            What's remarkable is that Petitioners do not
cite a single chapter 12 case in which a postpetition
tax liability has been treated as an administrative
expense.  Chapter 12 has been around since 1986, and
yet, there is not -- if this was such a big problem that
Congress was trying to get at it through this way, you
would have expected at least a single case in which a
postpetition tax liability had been treated as an
administrative expense.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  How would it show up?  I
mean, what difference -- suppose -- suppose you -- in 11
individual, 12, or 13, what's the difference whether you
treated it as an administrative expense or not, as long
as they all have to be paid anyway, you say?
            MR. SHAH:  Sure.  So, the difference is, in
chapter 12 and 13, they are treated outside of the
bankruptcy plan itself, but they do need to be paid up
front.  And, in fact, they receive a special --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No.  I mean, how would we
know?  How would we know --
            MR. SHAH:  Oh, that they're treated
differently?
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.
            MR. SHAH:  Through the code.  So, in chapter
12 and 13, 1226(b)(1) and 1326(b)(1), the parallel

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

43

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

provisions in chapter 13, they pull out administrative
expenses.  They pull them out --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I know.  Let's imagine
you're absolutely right.  They mean to treat them
differently.
            MR. SHAH:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  They mean to treat the
postpetition tax obligation to the Federal Government
not as an administrative expense.  But this is an
instance where the business will continue, and,
therefore, you have said in order to continue, you have
to pay all your tax liability and all your
administrative expenses.
            MR. SHAH:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Therefore, what difference
does it make whether you do or whether you don't treat
them as administrative expenses?  What is the
operational difference?
            MR. SHAH:  Sure.  Your Honor, it would be to
the government's advantage if these were in the ordinary
course -- at least before section 1222(a)(2)(A) was
enacted that stripped priority, it would have been in
the government's advantage to take the position that
these were administrative expenses.  And the reason why
it's favorable to the government is, those have to be

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

44

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

paid up front as part of the bankruptcy.
            If you don't treat them as administrative
expenses -- and the government took the self-denying
position here in the years leading up to 2005,
consistently taking the position these were not
administrative expenses, even though it was to the
government's disadvantage, because the code required
that interpretation.  And the disadvantage is you don't
get -- the government didn't get them paid up front as
administrative expenses.  They would have to collect
them outside of the bankruptcy.  And when you go to
collect them outside of the bankruptcy, there's much
more uncertainty.  There may not be any --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, it's certainly
not a self-denying position now, right?  You're arguing
that these are -- that the taxes of this sort are
administrative expenses when that puts you at the head
of the line.  You're arguing that they are not
administrative expenses, same type of taxes, when it
puts you at the back of the line, even though the
provision that puts you at the back of the line was
designed to particularly help the fishermen and -- and
farmers.
            MR. SHAH:  Your Honor, that -- that's just
not true.  Dating back to 1998 -- and these are cited in

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

45

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the Government's brief at pages 16a to 18a.  Dating back
to 1998, the government had consistently taken the
position that postpetition tax liabilities --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, I'm talking
about the position you're taking now.  You argue for --
            MR. SHAH:  We have maintained our --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- different
treatment of these taxes as to whether or not they're
administrative expenses -- not solely, but it leads to
the result that you get the money first either way.
            MR. SHAH:  Because Congress -- the
government has stayed consistent in its position.
Because Congress has changed the rules, it turns out
that that same interpretation --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, but then
you're saying that Congress changed the rules in a way
that, as Justice Alito's question suggested, really
doesn't do much at all, when what they wanted to do was
provide some real protection for farmers and fishermen.
            MR. SHAH:  I can't speak to what Congress
wanted to do.  If in fact they wanted to do that, then
they did it the wrong way.  They could have --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What would be -- what
would be the right way?
            MR. SHAH:  You could easily enact a separate

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

46

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

provision within 1222 that said something like -- use
the language something like section 1305, that said any
taxes that become payable after of the filing of the
petition shall be treated as non-dischargeable,
nonpriority debts and paid that way.
            But they didn't do that.  And I think
section 1305 is critical here, and this goes to your
question, Mr. Chief Justice, as well, that the
government is trying to take advantage here.  The --
adopting Petitioners' position would have a significant
ripple effect in chapter 13.  This is not simply a
matter of trying to get to the result that Senator
Grassley intended by narrowly interpreting
1222(a)(2)(A), and it won't have any other effects in
the code.  It will have a significant effect in the
intended operation of chapter 13.
            And -- and the reason why that's important
is, is to put this in perspective, there are about 600
to 700 total chapter 12 filings each year.  There's
somewhere on the upwards of 400,000 chapter 13 filings
each year, and here's where it would throw a wrench into
chapter 13.  If you look at section 1305 of chapter
13 -- and that's reproduced on page 11a of the
Government's appendix.  What 1305(a)(1) does is it
provides a special procedure for the government to file

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

47

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

a claim for postpetition taxes, exactly the type of tax
at issue in this case.  It says:  Government, you can go
file a claim to have that included within the bankruptcy
plan.
            If -- if you adopt Petitioners' position,
there would never be a case in which the government
would ever have any occasion to invoke 1305(a)(1),
because they would --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But why would that be a
problem?  You said that there would be a significant
ripple effect and practical difficulties.  And I
understand your argument about 13 shows that you have to
do this and why would 13 be necessary if Petitioner were
right, but you started out, I thought --
            MR. SHAH:  It -- yes.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  -- by trying to show us that
it would be a significant practical problem --
            MR. SHAH:  I said it would be a significant
disruption to the intended operation of chapter 13.  In
practice, it would actually mean that the government
comes out better under chapter 13 than in the
government's current position, because what Petitioners'
position would do, if you read --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  So, it just does
automatically for the government what is now done by --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

48

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

by some kind of government filing?
            MR. SHAH:  Well -- well, not even that, Your
Honor, because under -- the reason why 1305(a)(1) would
be dead letter -- you could just rip that page out of
the code and throw it away if you accept Petitioners'
reading.  The reason why that's true is because under
their reading, it would get administrative expense
priority, which are paid up front, super-priority, even
before anything else; but under 1305(a)(1), it doesn't
get administrative expense priority; it may not even get
any priority at all.
            And so, it's a significant change in the
operation of how the government would be seeking
postpetition tax liabilities.  Now, it would work to the
detriment of the debtor in chapter 13 cases, the upwards
of 400,000 chapter 13 cases that would --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But those are --
those are small potatoes compared to the sale of a farm
and a boat, right?
            MR. SHAH:  I would -- I would --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Would there -- this
particular issue of large capital gains from a sale of
significant assets doesn't typically arise in the
chapter 13 cases.
            MR. SHAH:  Sure, the capital gains tax

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

49

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

wouldn't, but there's all sorts of postpetition income
taxes that would arise in a chapter 13 case.  In a
chapter 13 case, those are wages that are being incurred
after the filing of the petition.  All of the taxes on
those wages after the petition would be the -- the type
of -- would be eligible for postpetition tax treatment.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, in chapter --
chapter 13 cases are the ones that you -- that are
typically resolved very quickly, right?
            MR. SHAH:  Your Honor, it is true that --
from the statistics that I have seen, on average we're
talking about 4 months in a chapter 13 case.  On average
in -- in a chapter 12 case, according to the professors'
amicus brief, median time is about 8 months.
            What's clear from the legislative history,
the reason why Congress set up the chapter 13 rules as
to make the tax incurred by the debtor rather than by
the estate is because Congress expressly said in the
legislative history, which is cited in our brief, that
they expected the confirmation time to be relatively
quickly in a chapter 13 case.
            We know that they made the same assumption
in the chapter 12 case because, one, they enacted the
same separate taxable entity rules; and, two, they put
in actual deadlines in the code for chapter 13:  90 days

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

50

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

to propose a plan, 45 days to confirm it.  So, roughly
4 months is what Congress had extended.
            Now, in practice, it's been the case that
bankruptcy courts have extended that time beyond the
statutory deadlines.  So, perhaps they are open a couple
months longer than what Congress had expected.  But that
wasn't the intent that Congress had enacted this with,
and if Congress wants to change that, it can go back and
rewrite the rules to -- to make that change.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, before you
finish, could you answer my question of what impact your
broader reading, your chapter 12, affects only
prepetition debts?  What else is that kind of holding
going to affect?  Your narrow alternative holding
affects just this issue.  That broader reading -- I
worry about a broader reading when I don't know its
impact.
            MR. SHAH:  I don't think it would have -- I
think -- I don't think it would have any adverse
effects.  And the reason is this:  The administrative
expenses, whether they're included in the plan or not,
are still going to be paid up front.  If you take
Petitioners' reading that administrative expenses are
really part of the plan under 1222(a)(2), rather than
1226(b)(1), you now have a conflict between 1226(b)(1),

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

51

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

which is on page 10a, which expressly addresses and only
addresses administrative expenses, and states that --
this is on page 10a.  It said those will be paid "before
or at the time of each payment to creditors under the
plan."
            Now, if you also said that they come under
1222(a)(2), which is the only way that Petitioners could
win -- if they also came under 1222(a)(2), 1222(a)(2)
says that their -- they must be provided for full
payment in deferred cash payments.  So, deferred
interest-free payments over the life of a 3- to 5-year
bankruptcy plan.  That's very different than having them
get super-priority treatment under 1226(b)(1) and be
paid in front -- up front, separate from the plan.
            So that -- that is one significant piece of
textual evidence that Congress thought that these should
be paid outside of the plan.
            The other piece of textual evidence is
section 1227(a), which appears on page 10a as well, and
what it says is that the confirmed plan shall be binding
on each creditor.  That's the only potentially relevant
category to the government.
            But section 101 defines "creditor" -- and
this is on page 1a of our appendix -- as "entity that
has a claim against a debtor that arose at the time of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

52

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

or before the order for relief concerning the debtor."
That is a holder of a prepetition claim.
            If a confirmed chapter 12 plan is only
binding on the holder of a prepetition claim, it makes
no sense to include postpetition claims within a
chapter 12 plan.  I don't even know what it would mean
to have a confirmed -- to have a plan included that and
not have that plan binding on the government.
            And so, I think if you take those two pieces
of textual evidence together, I think that strongly
supports the interpretation of 1222(a)(2) that when it
says a claim of the type specified in section 507, it
means "claim" and doesn't mean "claim and administrative
expense."
            Now, admittedly, Congress has not been
perfectly clear in using that term.  It uses --
sometimes it uses the term "claim" to mean claim and
administrative expense.  Sometimes it means it to only
mean claim.  But we should give effect to the
distinction between claim and administrative expense in
light of section 1226(b)(1), which specifically already
addresses administrative expenses.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But the problem with
that argument is that the two are used interchangeably
by everyone.  Congress, the Court --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

53

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. SHAH:  Yes, Your Honor.  And if --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  The government in many
situations, given the broad definition of "claims" --
            MR. SHAH:  Sure.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- the only logical
conclusion is that it includes a subset, a liability
created by administrative expenses.
            MR. SHAH:  Your Honor, and if you are only
construing that language in isolation, if it only said
"claim" in 507(a)(2) and 1226(b)(1) didn't exist, I
would be in full agreement with you that you would read
it to mean "claim and administrative expense."  Because
we know that administrative expenses have to be paid in
some way through the bankruptcy case.
            But 1226(b)(1) does exist in this code, and
we need to give that provision effect.
            The last point I would make is Congress
knows how to include administrative expenses within a
bankruptcy plan when it wants to.  If you look at the
corresponding provision in chapter 11, as opposed to the
provisions in chapter 12 and 13 -- this is section
1129(a)(9)(A) -- it expressly provides for the payment
of administrative expenses within the context of the
chapter 11 plan.  Chapter 12 and 13 take a different
approach, and the Court should give effect to the choice

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

54

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

that Congress made to treat administrative expenses
outside of the bankruptcy plan.
            If there are no further questions?
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. Shah.
            MR. SHAH:  Thank you, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Ms. Freeman, you
have 2 minutes remaining.
          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SUSAN M. FREEMAN
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MS. FREEMAN:  Your Honor, one of the first
things that Mr. Shah said was that the debtor should
have set aside $29,000 from the sale proceeds to pay the
taxes.  That's $29,000 in sale proceeds are property of
the estate.  And, yes, those are ordinarily set aside to
pay the taxes.  That's how bankruptcy cases work.
            Because you have 1222(a)(2)(A), that $29,000
didn't need to be used to pay the taxes, and instead was
set aside to be treated under the plan of
reorganization, where that tax claim could be demoted in
priority to a prepetition claim and discharged.
            But the ordinary course is that the sale
proceeds are used to pay the taxes, the administrative
expenses.  That's how bankruptcy works.  And the
Government's argument here completely undercuts that.
            With respect to section 1305, the language

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

55

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

is different because it uses the word "payable."  It
includes all postpetition, postconfirmation, all the way
through to the end of the bankruptcy case.  Not just the
short period of administration.
            In chapter 13 cases, you still have to pay
administrative expenses.  It's just that it's pretty
rare that you have a tax that is incurred during that
short period of administration.  And so, you have a
separate statute that covers the whole period through
the entirety of the plan of reorganization.
            The Court was -- Mr. Shah was asked about
cases where -- and in fact an administrative expense
claim was incurred for a capital gains tax in a
chapter 12 case.  We would cite the Court to the Specht
case.  A copy of that is attached to the professors'
amicus brief.  And that shows where a plan was defeated
because of the large capital gains tax from the sale of
the family farm.  And that, in fact, is cited in some of
the -- some of the legislative -- not the legislative
history, but some of the commentary about one of the
reasons why Senator Grassley supported section
1222(a)(2)(A) and drafted it in the first place.
            This prevents a plan from being confirmed.
In so many chapter 12 cases, family farmers are not able
to go through with their plans.  And that's why you have

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

56

the demotion in priority.
            It does have very little practical value if,
in fact, it only applies to prepetition sales -- and not
just prepetition but more than a year prepetition in
most instances.  The professors' amicus brief just
refers to prepetition, and its little chart doesn't say
that those are not within the scope of 507(a)(8), and
those eighth priority -- I'm sorry, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            The case is submitted.
            MS. FREEMAN:  Thank you.
            (Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

A

Abbott 14:21
ability 36:1
able 5:7 6:2

55:24

above-entitled

1:11 56:13

absolutely 43:4
accept 37:7 48:5
accepted 19:9

20:4

Act 33:8,9,9

38:23,25 39:19
39:21,23

actual 49:25
additional 23:2

25:24

address 20:18
addressed 19:15

20:12 21:2

addresses 51:1,2

52:22

administered

administers

5:18

24:8

administration
7:3 9:16 13:8
24:15 25:2,3
25:12,21 26:11
26:18,21 55:4
55:8

administrative
3:16 4:16 5:5
8:4 9:25 11:12
12:17,19,24
13:9 14:15,16
15:1,9,21
16:10,19,23,24
16:25 17:7
18:4,9 19:1,2,3
19:5,6,11,23
20:7,12,16,17
26:17 27:22,23
33:17,25 34:3
34:6,15,19
35:14,25 36:3

36:6 37:8,10
37:13 42:3,9
42:13 43:1,9
43:13,17,24
44:2,6,10,17
44:19 45:9
48:7,10 50:20
50:23 51:2
52:13,18,20,22
53:7,12,13,18
53:23 54:1,22
55:6,12

administrator

13:11

admittedly

31:18 38:16
52:15

adopt 47:5
adopting 46:10
advantage 11:21
31:8 43:20,23
46:9

adverse 50:19
affect 50:14
agree 33:3 41:14
agreement

53:11

Ah 34:25
ahead 26:24

27:1

32:2

ALITO 5:12

Alito's 45:17
allege 23:3
allow 29:3
allowed 17:9

35:18

allows 31:22
alter 28:2
alternative

50:14

alters 3:14
altogether 17:1
amend 14:7
amended 18:21
amendment

15:3

Official
Official

57

amicus 12:8

32:15,16 49:14
55:16 56:5

amount 30:12

35:17

anchor 40:24
answer 11:9
17:11 37:4
50:11

answers 6:15
anyway 42:14
apart 17:6
appeal 12:14
APPEARAN...

appears 41:8

1:14

51:19

appendix 38:20

41:8 46:24
51:24

applicable 21:24
applied 12:7
applies 11:8

15:3,19 22:23
22:23 56:3

apply 3:17 28:3
31:11 38:18,23
39:14

applying 40:2
approach 53:25
approved 30:7

31:5

April 26:13
arguably 33:22
argue 45:5
arguing 44:15

44:18

argument 1:12
2:2,5,8 3:3,7
16:25 19:22,24
20:3 26:3
27:12 34:1,1,2
37:25 47:12
52:24 54:8,24
arguments 14:4

19:10

arises 30:5

arising 30:9
Arizona 1:15
arose 16:15,16

51:25

aside 30:23

54:12,14,18
asked 55:11
asking 20:1,19

30:16

asset 21:18

28:18 30:20,21
assets 3:20 4:12
6:22 7:3,6,10
7:11 8:15,15
8:25 9:5 12:4
13:18 22:10
24:6,8,9,24
25:18,20 29:5
36:13 48:23
asset's 28:22
assigning 18:8
Assistant 1:17
assumption

49:22

attached 55:15
attempt 3:12
August 18:24,25
authority 12:22
automatically

average 49:11

47:25

49:12

aware 19:8 20:2
a.m 1:13 3:2

56:12

B

b 16:10
back 21:4 37:1,3

44:20,21,25
45:1 50:8

bankrupt 23:25
bankruptcy

3:11,15,17,19
3:24 4:11 5:11
6:20,22,25 7:1
7:7 8:5,21,24

9:2,5,16 10:17
11:15,15 12:1
13:3,4,13
15:13,20 16:19
17:1,2 18:12
18:18,21,23
21:13,16 22:9
24:6 25:14,15
27:2 28:21,23
29:8,17,24
30:1,3,5,6,8,20
31:4,13 32:8,9
39:17 40:23
41:1,10,11,20
42:17 44:1,11
44:12 47:3
50:4 51:12
53:14,19 54:2
54:15,23 55:3

based 25:10
29:14 40:3
basically 5:20
6:7,15 19:21
35:19

behalf 2:4,7,10
3:8 27:13 54:9

believe 8:19
20:9 21:3
benefit 28:7
best 14:11
better 47:21
beyond 11:23

50:4

big 15:23 17:17

26:23 28:21
30:10,12 42:5
bill 4:10 11:12

25:1 31:17

binding 51:20

52:4,8

bit 31:9,10
bite 35:6
boat 28:19,20

48:19

Brenda 5:17
BREYER 10:3
10:25 11:4,6

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

Official

58

14:2,19,21,24
15:24 16:2,5,8
17:11,15,19
18:7,11 34:7
34:10,13,18,21
35:1,3 36:3,22
42:10,19,23
43:3,7,15

brief 12:8 32:16

32:16 34:2
41:9 45:1
49:14,19 55:16
56:5

broad 20:22
21:1 25:13
53:3

broader 16:16

26:1 27:3
50:12,15,16
business 29:3

43:10

C
C 2:1 3:1
call 34:11,15
calling 16:23
capital 4:24 5:4
5:22,24 21:20
28:10 30:9,22
30:24 31:5
32:6,9 48:22
48:25 55:13,17

carry 9:23
case 3:4,19 5:3
5:16,19 7:17
8:21 9:5,16,17
10:4,4 11:15
11:15 12:4,13
12:25 13:3,6
13:17 16:23
17:2 18:24
21:16 22:2,14
22:22 23:21
24:3,21 25:15
25:17,19,22,22
26:10 27:4,17
29:10,10,13,14

30:5,5,20,20
30:23 32:15
36:16,25 37:12
39:17 40:22
41:10 42:2,7
47:2,6 49:2,3
49:12,13,21,23
50:3 53:14
55:3,14,15
56:10,12

cases 3:15,15,18
12:1,10 15:20
18:3 19:9,13
20:10,18 25:16
25:23 31:4
32:17,18,19
41:23,24 48:15
48:16,24 49:8
54:15 55:5,12
55:24

cash 51:10
categories 35:4
category 36:11

51:22

cause 15:15,19
central 28:18
certain 9:22
31:23 33:1

certainly 11:14
12:2 21:3 30:2
32:24 37:10
44:14

cetera 7:24
change 19:4,15
29:6,15 48:12
50:8,9

changed 45:13

45:16

chapter 3:14,19
7:20 9:17 10:6
11:14 12:1,3,8
12:9 15:20
17:13 19:10,19
22:15,15,23,24
23:2,6,23,24
24:3,18,18,19
24:21 25:15,17

25:21,22,22,23
26:18 27:4,4
27:20,20 28:2
28:12 29:1
33:2,6 35:23
36:10,12,15,25
41:22 42:2,4
42:16,24 43:1
46:11,16,19,20
46:22,22 47:19
47:21 48:15,16
48:24 49:2,3,7
49:8,12,13,16
49:21,23,25
50:12 52:3,6
53:20,21,24,24
55:5,14,24

chart 32:17,18

56:6

Chief 3:3,9

11:17,25 12:11
27:8,11,14
28:15 29:18
30:10 44:14
45:4,7,15 46:8
48:17,21 49:7
54:4,6 56:9
choice 53:25
chosen 33:23
circuit 19:8 26:5

26:6 29:10

cite 32:18 38:13

41:14 42:2
55:14

cited 18:14

41:23 44:25
49:19 55:18

claim 12:19

14:13 15:5,6,6
16:3,7,13,15
16:16 17:10
26:17 27:1,2
28:14 35:24,25
47:1,3 51:25
52:2,4,12,13
52:13,17,17,19
52:20 53:10,12

54:19,20 55:13

claimed 7:24
claims 5:10 15:8
15:16,25 16:9
16:20,23,24
19:19 20:13
28:2 31:24
33:1 36:5,19
52:5 53:3
clear 21:18

30:17 49:15
52:16

clerk 3:23
close 10:13
code 3:17 6:11
7:1,16 13:3,4
14:7 15:13
16:13,19 18:18
18:21 21:25
22:3 33:8,13
33:15,18 34:16
41:7,20 42:24
44:7 46:15
48:5 49:25
53:15

codified 39:23

40:10

collect 26:24

44:10,12

23:19

come 35:6 37:12

39:15 51:6
comes 10:19
33:6 47:21
coming 35:13
commencement

commentary

commissions

22:2

55:20

26:23

Committee 39:1
compared 48:18
completely

54:24

complies 9:18

Alderson Reporting Company

9:18 10:1
component

29:14

compute 5:22
concerning 7:18

52:1

conclusion 53:6
confirm 50:1
confirmation
4:3,14 24:16
49:20

confirmed 26:12

36:17,21,23
51:20 52:3,7
55:23

conflict 50:25
Congress 21:11
31:3 32:5,23
32:24 38:10,12
38:18,21 39:2
40:1 42:6
45:11,13,16,20
49:16,18 50:2
50:6,7,8 51:16
52:15,25 53:17
54:1

consider 37:15
considerable

12:15

29:24

consist 3:21
consisted 22:10
consistent 6:7

6:21 13:2
27:20 45:12
consistently
16:21 44:5
45:2

consists 3:20

6:22 24:6

construe 3:16
construing 53:9
consummated

contains 22:21

40:1

27:25

collection 23:18

considered

context 29:24

31:11 40:19,23
53:23

continue 43:10

43:11

continued 13:5
continues 24:10

25:4

contrary 6:12
control 13:13

22:19

convenience

3:23

converted 39:7
copy 55:15
corn 29:21
corporate 3:14
15:20 22:15
23:6,9 24:17
24:18 25:19
40:19 41:11,15
41:23

corporation 8:8

correct 5:2 7:22

correctly 31:25

corresponding

41:12

8:1

40:19

53:20

Costello 14:22
costs 37:14,14
counsel 6:4
50:10 56:9

count 6:2
counterintuitive

28:24

County 4:21
couple 32:12

50:5

course 7:2 9:15

11:7 12:18
18:1,5 25:21
43:21 54:21
court 1:1,12

3:10,16 13:6
13:10,17 16:20

Official

59

17:10,25 27:19
30:25

debtor 5:7,14,15
6:11 7:8,12,14
7:18,24 8:13
8:14 9:11,16
11:21 22:11,12
22:16,17,24
23:7,8,24
24:17,18,19,19
24:23,24 25:7
26:25 30:19
31:23 39:22
48:15 49:17
51:25 52:1
54:11

debtors 23:7
debtor's 8:2,3
debtor-in-pos...
13:7,10,15,20
13:21 22:18
23:20 25:13

debts 3:25 4:4,6

4:6 10:10,12
10:15,20 12:5
17:8,9,16,21
19:10 27:21,22
28:3 46:5
50:13

decided 38:24
deciding 30:11
deductions 8:3,4
deemed 34:3
defeated 55:16
defend 20:20
deference 33:9

deferred 51:10

33:11

51:10

define 38:3,7
defined 16:13,14

34:16

defines 51:23
definition 32:21
34:5 37:11,13
53:3

Delphi 11:15

demoted 5:8

15:23

54:19

demotes 5:6
demotion 56:1
Department

designed 29:3

1:18

44:22

determine 40:5
detriment 48:15
difference 6:3

23:17 42:11,12
42:15 43:15,18
different 19:16

41:6 45:7
51:12 53:24
55:1

differently

33:22,24 42:22
43:5

difficulties

47:11

disadvantage

44:7,8

discharge 5:7

9:10,12,12,17
9:20,21,22,25
13:22

dischargeable

27:19

discharged 5:9
13:23 54:20

discharges 17:8
discretion 33:23
dismissed 12:25
dispute 33:4,5,7
disputing 30:3
disruption

47:19

distinction

52:20

doing 15:12 37:5
domestic 35:9

36:6

doubt 31:25
drafted 38:23

55:22

drag 12:2
draws 10:13
due 11:13
duty 41:5,15,16
D.C 1:8,18
E
E 2:1 3:1,1
earn 5:7 10:10

24:11

earned 3:22
24:14 26:23
earnings 23:9
earns 22:11 24:4

26:25

easily 45:25
effect 3:13 13:12
25:4 46:11,15
47:11 52:19
53:16,25

effects 46:14

50:20

eight 32:18,19
eighth 18:19,22

36:19 56:8
either 28:19

45:10

elect 26:22
election 26:7,9
eligible 49:6
employee 37:8
employment
33:19,20,21
37:15

enact 45:25
enacted 38:5,18

43:22 49:23
50:7

entire 18:24
32:7 34:16

entirely 40:24
entirety 55:10
entities 38:19
entitled 33:1
entity 6:10,24
7:5 22:1,5,7,8

16:22 17:4
25:3,11 27:15
30:8 36:2
41:13 52:25
53:25 55:11,14
courts 20:2 21:2

40:7,7 50:4
Court's 13:2
cover 27:22
covered 28:2,12
covers 55:9
create 7:21
created 7:17

53:7

creditor 16:14

51:21,23

creditors 12:21

51:4

critical 46:7
crop 5:21 12:6
crops 3:24
curiae 12:8
current 47:22

D
D 1:3 3:1
dairy 29:21
date 3:21 4:3,7
4:13 6:23 7:4
22:11 24:7,16
24:16 25:19
Dating 44:25

45:1

days 26:12
49:25 50:1

dead 48:4
deadlines 49:25

deal 6:2,4 14:3

50:5

30:11

13:24

dealing 4:24

deals 8:20 9:14
24:10 25:24
dealt 30:6,18

38:15

debt 10:7,20

Alderson Reporting Company

22:9,16 23:13
23:17 24:1
38:14,17 39:6
39:16,21 40:18
41:2,19 49:24
51:24

exception 11:7

17:6 21:24
22:21,22 23:2
23:4,5 24:2
27:25

exceptions 9:21

ESQ 1:15,17 2:3

23:23

Official

60

expressly 49:18

51:1 53:22

extended 40:1

50:2,4

extending 11:22
extent 32:23

F

fact 11:11 12:19

20:15 35:24
41:25 42:18
45:21 55:12,18
56:3

failed 20:6
fair 25:6
fairly 10:5 29:19
fall 26:14 28:3

28:13

family 55:18,24
farm 3:13 4:25

5:5,8 9:24 10:5
10:8,18 20:11
21:19 23:10
27:25 28:5,6
28:18,20 29:5
29:16,20 30:19
30:21 32:7,7
48:18 55:18
farmer 20:15
29:15 30:13
farmers 28:17

29:3,4,19 31:8
44:23 45:19
55:24

farming 29:4,6

29:16

fault 14:8
favorable 43:25
featured 26:5
Federal 4:21 6:8
6:21,25,25 7:9
35:10,13,18
38:24 40:2,11
43:8

fertilizer 10:11
file 5:12,17 7:8

26:11 27:1

41:4,5,15,21
46:25 47:3
filed 5:13,14

18:23,25

files 8:22 22:17

23:7 24:23

filing 3:21 4:1,3
4:13 6:23 7:4
18:22 22:10
24:7,16 25:19
40:21 46:3
48:1 49:4

filings 46:19,20
finish 37:5 50:11
finite 36:13
first 3:4 17:12
17:13 27:19
29:8 32:13
33:7 36:7,19
45:10 54:10
55:22

fishermen 28:17

44:22 45:19

focused 31:7,15
followed 20:10
following 34:7

35:21

footnote 34:2
forma 5:23
forth 5:22 34:1

framework

39:20

31:21

Freeman 1:15
2:3,9 3:6,7,9
4:2,8,16,20 5:2
5:15 6:6,14,18
7:14,19,22 8:1
8:14,19 9:11
10:23 11:3,5
11:10,25 12:13
14:18,20 15:18
16:1,4,7,12
17:14,18 18:4
18:9,14 19:13
19:17,20,25
20:5,8,21,25

21:6,9,14 22:6
22:25 23:4,16
24:2 25:5,9
26:8 27:9,10
54:6,8,10
56:11

front 42:18 44:1

44:9 48:8
50:22 51:14,14

full 36:1,4,20
51:9 53:11
fully 35:8,9
38:22,22
fund 13:25
fundamental

3:14

further 54:3
future 10:19

17:21

G

G 3:1
gain 5:1
gains 4:24 5:4
5:23,24 21:20
28:10 30:9,22
30:25 31:6
32:7,9 48:22
48:25 55:13,17

gap 40:4,9
gather 29:18
General 1:18

11:16

generally 12:10
generate 3:12
generated 21:16

30:21

generates 21:19
generating

25:20

getting 12:6

35:7

GINSBURG
4:15,18,23
26:3 28:5
33:19 45:23
give 10:10,11

Alderson Reporting Company

2:6,9

estate 3:19,24
4:5,9,11,12
5:11,13,15
6:10,11,22 7:2
7:2,10,17,21
8:5,7,13,15,25
9:2,5,7 10:17
12:2 13:11,14
13:18 21:8,8
21:11,18,22
22:9,13,15
23:8,11,15,17
23:18,25 24:5
24:5,6,12,17
24:20,21,24
25:7,8,10
26:24 27:2
34:4,19 35:20
37:11,14,19,20
37:22 38:4
39:9,22 40:6
41:1,4,11,20
41:25 49:18
54:14

estates 3:11

25:14

estate's 9:8

35:19

et 1:3 7:24
everybody

exist 8:16,25

25:18 53:10,15

existed 3:20
expect 38:22
expected 42:7
49:20 50:6
expense 5:5
12:19 13:9
15:21 26:17
33:18 34:4,6
35:14,25 37:13
42:4,9,13 43:9
48:7,10 52:14
52:18,20 53:12
55:12

expenses 4:11

8:4 9:25 11:12
12:17,18 14:15
14:16 15:2,8,9
15:11,15,17
16:10,19 17:1
17:7 18:4 19:1
19:2,3,5,6,11
19:23 20:7,13
20:17 21:17
25:2 27:23,23
28:12 33:25
34:15,19 35:19
36:4,7 37:8,10
43:2,13,17,24
44:3,6,10,17
44:19 45:9
50:21,23 51:2
52:22 53:7,13
53:18,23 54:1
54:23 55:6
explaining

29:15

explanation

11:24 31:7,15
evidence 31:16

51:16,18 52:10

exactly 18:15
29:23 31:16
47:1

example 4:9,22

29:9

excepted 9:22

39:2

Hall 1:3 3:4 5:17

18:15

20:6 52:19
53:16,25

given 8:7 11:9

37:6 53:3

gives 21:5 26:1,7

27:3

go 11:19 14:12

17:20 21:4
26:24 27:1
28:21 29:11,17
44:11 47:2
50:8 55:25

goes 10:6 46:7
going 7:8,10,12
8:2 10:8 13:22
17:20 19:7
25:17,19 26:13
26:16,16 28:22
29:25 30:11,13
31:13 35:11
36:16 50:14,22

government
15:10 17:23
19:8 26:1,7,9
26:15,20 27:3
35:18 43:8,25
44:3,9 45:2,12
46:9,25 47:2,6
47:20,25 48:1
48:13 51:22
52:8 53:2

governmental

31:24

government's

3:12 16:25
18:17,17 19:9
19:18 20:10
30:18 41:8,9
43:20,23 44:7
45:1 46:24
47:22 54:24
Grassley 11:7

14:5 28:7
31:18,25 32:3
33:10 46:13
55:21

Grassley's 31:18

great 14:3
guidance 40:4

40:10

H

21:18

Halls 18:23
Hall's 3:22
happen 29:4

30:7

happens 10:3
11:14 17:12
18:2 30:3

hard 8:6
harm 15:15,19
Hartford 16:22
head 39:13

44:17

heads 39:5,7
hear 3:3
heaven's 11:1
held 25:3 41:13
help 44:22
helps 11:23
high 31:5
highest 13:1
history 38:12

49:15,19 55:20

holder 52:2,4
holding 50:13

50:14

Holywell 41:13
Honor 4:8,20
5:2,19 6:6,14
8:1,20 10:24
11:3,10 12:13
15:18 16:12
20:9,25 21:6
22:6 23:5,16
24:3 26:8 28:9
28:25 30:2,16
31:14 32:13
33:21 34:20
35:2 36:8 37:9
38:11 39:13
40:25 43:19

Official

61

44:24 48:3
49:10 53:1,8
54:5,10 56:8

hornbook 18:12
hornbooks

I

idea 30:13 39:5

39:7

ignore 31:1
imagine 43:3
impact 20:12

50:11,17

impacts 21:1
implemented

38:14

important 21:22

26:9 46:17

imposed 8:8,9

9:8

imposes 41:20
inapt 41:24
include 3:25

5:24 8:4 15:16
16:6 52:5
53:18

included 28:6
47:3 50:21
52:7

includes 5:20
14:16 25:25
53:6 55:2

including 15:1
16:9,20 17:5,9
27:22

income 3:12,22
4:12 5:21 7:2
7:23 9:1 10:19
17:21 21:15,19
21:21 22:11
24:4,11,11,14
24:20 25:20
26:17 27:16
39:24 41:12
49:1

incorporated

13:4

incur 3:11 4:9
21:9,14 22:4
24:8 35:5 41:1
41:18

incurred 4:1,4,7

4:11 13:7,8
20:14 21:7,11
21:13,14 25:6
25:8,9,11,12
25:12 26:15
28:11 34:4,19
34:22 37:11,19
37:20,22 38:4
39:9 40:5
41:25 49:3,17
55:7,13

incurring 4:10

24:19

incurs 23:15

41:17,17

independent

24:4

independently

22:11,12

indicate 31:19
individual 7:8

13:18,19 20:15
22:24 23:24
24:3,4,6,10,19
42:12

individually
8:23 9:3,4
individuals

instance 11:16

34:24

43:10

instances 17:15

24:13 56:5

intended 21:11
21:12 22:21
32:5,24 46:13
46:16 47:19
intent 31:19

interchangeably

50:7

52:24

interesting

18:16

interest-free

51:11

Internal 7:16
21:25 41:7

interpret 41:22
interpretation

20:11 32:3
33:12 44:8
45:14 52:11

interpreted

16:21 19:14
interpreting

intervening

46:13

39:25

invoke 47:7
involve 19:22,23

32:19

involved 29:11
involves 19:10

19:19

involving 32:17
IRS 6:1 33:23
39:15,19 40:2
40:19

isolation 53:9
issue 21:5 27:17
28:4,21 29:12
30:14,25 37:12
47:2 48:22
50:15

issues 9:14
I.D 6:24
J

January 10:5

18:25

Joe 10:18
jurisdiction

39:1

Justice 1:18 3:3
3:9,25 4:6,15
4:18,23 5:12
6:4,9,15,18
7:12,15,20,23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

62

8:6,17 9:7 10:3
10:25 11:4,6
11:17 12:1,11
14:2,19,21,24
15:24 16:2,5,8
17:11,15,19
18:7,11 19:7
19:16,18,21
20:1,6,19,22
21:4,7,10,23
22:20 23:1,12
23:22 25:5
26:3 27:8,11
27:14 28:5,15
29:18 30:10
31:2 32:2
33:19 34:7,10
34:13,18,21
35:1,3 36:3,22
37:1,3,24 38:3
38:9 39:4
40:13,16 42:10
42:19,23 43:3
43:7,15 44:14
45:4,7,15,17
45:23 46:8
47:9,16,24
48:17,21 49:7
50:10 52:23
53:2,5 54:4,6
56:9

K

KAGAN 25:5
31:2 37:24
38:3,9 39:4
40:13,16 47:9
47:16,24

KENNEDY
3:25 4:6 9:7

key 15:10
kind 11:23

14:14 15:1,6
25:10 26:2
39:5 48:1
50:13

kinds 10:11

25:14

knew 32:24
know 6:2 10:11

11:16 15:12
29:20 31:13
42:20,20 43:3
49:22 50:16
52:6 53:13
knows 53:18
Knudsen 5:19
29:10,10,11
32:14

L

language 6:13

25:10 37:19,20
39:8 46:2 53:9
54:25

large 11:14

40:23 48:22
55:17

larger 32:22
lasted 12:14
Laughter 14:23
law 7:7,9,25

18:12

lead 33:16
leading 44:4
leads 45:9
leases 12:5
leave 15:14
left 15:10
legislative 38:12
40:10 49:15,19
55:19,19

legislator 31:17
letter 48:4
let's 35:8 43:3
liabilities 21:16
32:18,20 33:17
41:24 45:3
48:14

liability 13:24

17:10 21:15,20
21:20 22:12
24:9 27:16
28:4 29:12,14

30:18,22 33:6
42:3,8 43:12
53:6

liable 8:8 9:3,4,8

9:9 35:16
41:17

life 51:11
light 4:9 11:12

25:1 34:14
35:15 52:21

limit 3:12
limited 27:21
line 8:7 44:18,20

44:21

liquidated 36:14
liquidation

36:13

literally 35:5
little 31:9,10
32:4 56:2,6
livestock 29:6
loaned 10:18
local 6:12,16,20
7:9,25 38:16
38:19 39:14,24

logic 8:11
logical 53:5
long 12:9,11

42:13

longer 12:3,3

50:6

look 10:19 15:7
18:11,13 40:20
46:22 53:19

looked 40:8
looking 8:12
34:10 40:17

looks 17:4 40:20
loosely 35:20
losing 40:23
lot 10:7,12 30:15

31:10 34:11
lottery 20:14

Lynwood 1:3

23:9

5:17

M

M 1:15 2:3,9 3:7

54:8

maintained 45:6
making 31:8
managed 31:12
matter 1:11 7:7

13:22 29:1
33:22 36:10,12
36:24 46:12
56:13

mean 11:17
17:12 19:2
23:12,14 30:12
32:6 42:11,19
43:4,7 47:20
52:6,13,17,19
53:12

meaning 19:6

33:18

means 16:15
19:15 23:14
39:1 52:13,18

median 49:14
members 8:10
minutes 54:7
misunderstan...

36:9

money 10:18
13:16 17:20
35:8 36:5
45:10

moneys 9:14
month 26:12
months 31:13

49:12,14 50:2
50:6

morning 3:4
Motors 11:16
move 12:23
moves 30:19
movie 14:22

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
name 11:1
narrow 50:14

narrower 32:21

32:23

narrowly 46:13
necessarily

16:15

necessary 8:18

18:7 37:14
47:13

need 12:5 20:16
24:2,12 42:17
53:16 54:17
needed 23:23
never 39:7 47:6
new 12:6
Nicholas 13:3,6
13:17 25:4,11

Ninth 26:5
nonpriority
27:19 46:5

non-discharge...

46:4

normal 27:4
November 1:9
null 32:13
number 6:24

18:14 35:15,15
numerous 16:18

O
O 2:1 3:1
obligation 41:20

obligations 35:9

43:8

36:6

obviously 28:7
occasion 47:7
occurred 32:10
odd 31:9,10,10
officer 13:10
oh 17:25 42:21
Okay 19:17
20:21 35:3
36:8,22 38:2
ones 8:23 49:8
open 50:5
operated 23:19

32:25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

63

operating 4:9,10

10:9 12:16
21:17

operation 4:4

29:7,16 33:10
46:16 47:19
48:13

operational

43:18

operations

29:21

opposed 53:20
option 26:20
oral 1:11 2:2,5

3:7 27:12
order 36:20
43:11 52:1

ordering 36:24
ordinarily 54:14
ordinary 12:18

18:5 43:20
54:21

originally 38:23
outside 8:21
17:1 20:3,8
28:23 29:7,25
32:8,8,10
42:16 44:11,12
51:17 54:2

owed 33:10,11
owns 24:7
P

P 3:1
page 2:2 32:16
32:19 38:20
41:9 46:23
48:4 51:1,3,19
51:24

pages 45:1
paid 11:13 12:20

12:24 13:1
14:25 17:2,7
17:20 18:5,6,7
18:10 20:17
27:2,24 35:14
36:1,4,14,20

37:16 42:14,17
44:1,9 46:5
48:8 50:22
51:3,14,17
53:13

parallel 39:14

40:9 42:25
parcel 37:17
part 3:23 17:2
23:10 24:5,20
29:20 31:19
32:7 33:8,8
34:5 37:16,25
44:1 50:24

particular 5:3

9:24 39:19
48:22

particularly
18:16 44:22
partner 8:24
partners 8:9,22

9:9

partnership 8:9

8:20,21,22
passed 38:21
pay 7:5,7,13

8:13,23,24 9:2
9:5 13:15,15
13:18 19:11
21:8 30:24
35:8,9 41:4,16
41:21 43:12
54:12,15,17,22
55:5

payable 4:12
12:18 13:9
15:23 25:7,25
46:3 55:1

payment 9:13
9:14 12:22,23
12:23 16:14
19:3 51:4,10
53:22

payments 9:15
15:1 24:25,25
25:1 51:10,11

payroll 37:15

pays 6:11 7:14

8:14 24:9

people 10:10
31:12 34:22
35:4

people's 39:5,6
perfectly 52:16
period 4:2,13,17

7:3 11:13
12:15,16,17
13:8 18:20,24
24:15 25:2,12
26:11,14,18,19
26:21,22 55:4
55:8,9

permit 31:21
person 13:13,24

14:1 31:16
personally

perspective

35:17

46:18

petition 4:3,13
6:23 7:4 22:10
24:7,15 25:18
46:4 49:4,5

Petitioner 47:13
Petitioners 1:4

1:16 2:4,10 3:8
29:11 41:23
42:1 46:10
47:5,22 48:5
50:23 51:7
54:9

Phoenix 1:15
phrase 38:6 39:9
piece 51:15,18
pieces 52:9
place 33:7 55:22
plan 4:3,14 5:9
9:19 10:2 17:5
17:8 24:16
26:12,22 27:21
28:2,3,12 31:4
33:2,7 36:10
36:16,17,21,23
42:17 47:4

50:1,21,24
51:5,12,14,17
51:20 52:3,6,7
52:8 53:19,24
54:2,18 55:10
55:16,23
plans 55:25
plan's 30:11
please 3:10

27:15

point 11:4 14:8

21:15 30:4
32:22 34:14
37:21 53:17
points 28:25
position 11:21

18:17 20:20,23
26:4,6 28:22
29:25 33:14
43:23 44:4,5
44:15 45:3,5
45:12 46:10
47:5,22,23

19:12

postconfirmat...

26:1 55:2
postpetition
9:23 11:22
17:16,25 24:11
25:25 27:16,22
27:23 28:4
29:12 31:20
32:6,17 33:6
33:17 35:5,8
41:24 42:2,8
43:8 45:3 47:1
48:14 49:1,6
52:5 55:2

potatoes 48:18
potential 11:22

34:2

potentially

51:21

practical 29:1
32:4 47:11,17
56:2

Alderson Reporting Company

postbankruptcy

37:14

practice 34:11

40:3 47:20
50:3

PRATIK 1:17

2:6 27:12

preceded 13:3
preceding 8:12
prepetition 5:10

9:22 10:20
16:15,17 17:21
18:19,20 19:10
19:19 27:21
28:10,11 29:13
31:24 32:9,20
32:21 33:2
50:13 52:2,4
54:20 56:3,4,4
56:6

prescient 38:10

38:12

presented 20:3
preserve 29:22
preserving

presume 40:8
pretend 30:14

30:17

pretty 17:17

55:6

prevents 55:23
previous 32:11
pre-existing

31:20 33:8,12
33:14 39:18
40:3

pre-1 10:7
price 30:22,24
principle 3:14
prior 39:15
priorities 5:5
17:23 18:8
36:10,24

priority 3:17 5:6

5:8 10:21,23
11:1,2,5 12:24
13:2,9 17:24
18:10,19,19,22

Official

64

reason 22:8 31:2

requires 3:15

20:7,16 28:1
28:12,14 31:23
32:25 33:1
35:14,24,25
36:7,11,15,18
36:19,19 37:6
43:22 48:8,10
48:11 54:20
56:1,8

pro 5:10,23
problem 14:12
20:25 21:23
31:7,15 42:5
47:10,17 52:23
procedure 46:25
Procedures 6:1
proceedings

10:8

proceeds 3:24

5:21 23:10
54:12,13,22

process 10:21,24
professors 12:9

32:15 49:13
55:15 56:5
proper 33:12
properly 37:21
property 4:22

9:1 21:21
23:18,19 24:17
24:20 31:12
54:13

propose 50:1
proposed 36:16
protection 45:19
provide 26:8
32:16 45:19
provided 17:9

18:19 39:2
51:9

provides 7:16
9:24 21:25
46:25 53:22
provision 5:6

14:7 15:19,21
18:15 22:21
25:24 29:2,2

32:3 38:19
41:6 44:21
46:1 53:16,20
provisions 9:13

9:18 10:1
13:22 16:18
17:4 26:4 33:8
33:13,15 37:22
38:5,5 43:1
53:21

pull 38:24 43:1

43:2

purposes 10:17
put 11:7 23:3
46:18 49:24

puts 44:17,20,21

Q

qualifies 32:15
question 6:16

11:8,18 17:12
17:22 19:16
30:8 35:12
37:2,4 40:14
40:20 45:17
46:8 50:11

questions 54:3
queue 10:22
quick 11:23
quickly 11:20
15:5 49:9,21

R

R 3:1
rare 55:7
rata 5:10
reach 31:19
read 6:9 15:16

16:8 19:23
21:7 22:21
31:10 39:10
47:23 53:11
readily 40:7
reading 15:25
37:7 48:6,7
50:12,15,16,23
real 39:10 45:19

really 13:4,21
16:24 21:2
25:13 27:3
45:17 50:24

43:24 46:17
48:3,6 49:16
50:20

reasons 27:19

55:21

rebuttal 2:8
27:7 54:8

receive 42:18
received 12:7,22

receives 9:12,17

reduction 35:17

12:23

9:19

35:21

refer 16:19
reference 38:4
referred 16:23
referring 39:10
refers 14:15

15:3,9 25:15
56:6

rejected 12:6
relative 36:11
relatively 49:20
relevant 37:12

37:21,21 51:21

relief 52:1
remainder 27:6
remaining 54:7
remarkable

42:1

reorganization

5:9,16 9:19
10:2 22:14
23:20 29:2
54:19 55:10

reorganize 29:5
representative

32:17

reprinted 38:20
reproduced

46:23

required 17:7

requirements

44:7

17:5

13:13

reserve 27:6
resolve 30:25
resolved 49:9
respect 6:16
11:21 17:5
18:16 40:11
54:25

respectfully
11:25 15:18
23:16

Respondent

1:19 2:7 27:13
responses 32:12
responsibility

13:21

responsible

13:19,20,23
41:3

rest 10:1
restructured

12:5

result 14:9 22:1
23:14 31:6,21
33:16 40:11
45:10 46:12
return 5:13,18

5:20,24 7:9 8:2
8:22 23:8
40:21 41:4,6
41:11,15,21
returns 22:17

24:24

revenue 7:16
21:25 39:19
40:3 41:7
rewrite 50:9
right 7:19 10:25

14:6,7 15:12
16:1,4,13
17:14 19:20
26:2,22 34:24

35:21 37:9
43:4 44:15
45:24 47:14
48:19 49:9
rights 27:3
rip 48:4
ripple 46:11

47:11

ROBERTS 3:3

11:17 12:11
27:8,11 28:15
29:18 30:10
44:14 45:4,7
45:15 48:17,21
49:7 54:4,6
56:9

roughly 50:1
rules 38:14,17

38:17 39:13,20
39:23 45:13,16
49:16,24 50:9

ruling 39:19

40:3,8

rulings 39:16

run 10:10,13,16

40:9

17:16

S
S 2:1 3:1
sale 3:13 4:24

5:1,6,8,21 9:24
20:11 23:10
27:25 28:11
29:5 30:7,21
30:22,24 31:6
32:7 48:18,22
54:12,13,21
55:17

sales 12:4 28:6,6

28:10 29:9
56:3

save 28:20 29:7

29:16

saying 6:13

17:23,24,25
19:19,22 21:12

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

65

31:1 34:21
35:23 36:9
37:7 39:4
45:16

says 7:15 9:7

14:13,25 15:6
15:10 16:3
17:6,8 22:22
24:21 26:15
29:25 41:10
47:2 51:9,20
52:12

SCALIA 21:23
22:20 23:1,12
23:22

scope 56:7
second 36:7
section 3:13,16
3:17 6:5,6,20
7:1,6 8:12
13:12 15:22
16:13 17:8,9
18:18 19:14
21:25 22:9,23
23:6 24:21
25:24 27:17,24
27:25 28:13,14
31:8,22 32:1
32:24 33:3,10
33:15,15,16
34:23,23,23,24
38:15 39:13,23
41:7 43:21
46:2,7,22
51:19,23 52:12
52:21 53:21
54:25 55:21
sections 37:23
see 14:12 16:20

26:25 29:7
34:14

seek 33:24
seeking 48:13
seen 49:11
self-denying

44:3,15

sell 29:6,20,22

30:19 31:12

selling 3:24 24:9
sells 24:8
Senator 11:7

14:5 28:7
31:18,18,25
32:2 33:10
46:12 55:21
sense 6:19,19
14:3,4 25:14
28:16 30:15
32:25 52:5

sent 5:25
sentence 8:11,18

8:19

separate 5:23
6:10,23,24
7:17,21 9:13
10:16 22:1,5,7
22:8,13 23:13
24:12 38:14,17
39:6,16,20
40:18 41:2,19
45:25 49:24
51:14 55:9

separately 13:23

27:24

set 6:24 30:23
32:14,14 34:1
34:1 36:13,20
38:16 39:20
49:16 54:12,14
54:18

settle 35:7
Shah 1:17 2:6
27:11,12,14
28:9,25 30:2
30:16 31:3,14
32:12 33:21
34:9,12,17,20
34:25 35:2,22
36:8,23 37:9
37:25 38:2,8
38:11 39:12
40:15,25 42:15
42:21,24 43:6
43:14,19 44:24

45:6,11,20,25
47:15,18 48:2
48:20,25 49:10
50:18 53:1,4,8
54:4,5,11
55:11

share 5:10
shave 35:13,16

36:2

shed 34:13
ship 10:6,9
shoes 38:25
short 18:20

26:11,14,19
55:4,8

show 35:12

42:10 47:16

shown 5:19
shows 12:9

47:12 55:16

sides 33:3 41:14

41:14

significant

29:13 32:20
46:10,15 47:10
47:17,18 48:12
48:23 51:15
similar 4:25
simply 17:3

39:12 46:11

simultaneously

37:16

single 7:4,5 22:7

22:16 42:2,7
situation 20:4,9

29:19

situations 53:3
sloughed 15:4
small 32:14

48:18

Smith 10:18
sold 21:19
solely 45:9
Solicitor 1:17
somebody 6:1
sorry 56:8
sort 23:2 29:23

32:13 38:1
44:16

sorts 49:1
Sotomayor 6:4,9

6:15,18 7:12
7:15,20,23 8:6
8:17 19:7,16
19:18,21 20:1
20:6,19,22
21:4,7,10 37:3
50:10 52:23
53:2,5

Sotomayor's

37:2

speak 45:20
Specht 55:14
special 5:25

42:18 46:25
specific 25:23
specifically

52:21

specified 14:14

15:6 52:12

split 19:8 20:24
start 15:13
started 47:14
State 4:18,19,21
4:25 5:3,12 6:7
6:11,16,20 7:9
7:25 38:16,18
39:14,24
statements

31:19

states 1:1,6,12
3:5 22:3 51:2
statistics 49:11
statute 3:13 9:24

20:11 31:11
39:11 55:9

statutory 31:20

39:8 50:5
stayed 45:12
step 38:25 40:1
stop 15:22
store 3:23
straddle 18:23
strip 31:23

32:25

stripped 43:22
strips 28:1
stronger 14:4
strongly 52:10
structure 27:20
study 12:9
subject 9:25
10:6 27:17

submitted 56:10

56:13

subset 28:1
31:23 53:6

subsidies 12:7
subtract 10:20
suggest 40:17
suggested 45:17
suggesting 39:8
super-priority

48:8 51:13
support 35:9

36:6

supported 55:21
supports 52:11
suppose 4:25

15:25 42:11,11
Supreme 1:1,12
sure 31:8,14
34:9 38:8
40:15 42:15
43:19 48:25
53:4

SUSAN 1:15 2:3

2:9 3:7 54:8

T

T 2:1,1
take 21:15 31:8

35:20 39:9
43:23 46:9
50:22 52:9
53:24

taken 21:17 35:5

45:2

talked 15:5
talking 15:5

28:16,17 36:15

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

66

45:4 49:12

talks 14:14 15:7

34:18

tax 4:24,25 5:13
5:17,20,23,24
6:10,24 7:1,7,9
8:2,8,9,22 9:3
9:8,13,14
10:17 11:1
20:3,8,13
21:19 22:4,12
22:17 23:7,15
24:24 27:16
28:4,10 29:12
29:13 30:9,17
30:22,25 32:17
32:20 33:6,17
33:19 37:15,22
39:6,22 40:21
41:1,16,17,18
41:21,24 42:3
42:8 43:8,12
45:3 47:1
48:14,25 49:6
49:17 54:19
55:7,13,17

taxable 6:23 7:4
7:17,21 22:1,5
22:7,7,8,16
23:13,13,17
24:12 32:11
38:14,17 39:16
39:21 40:18
41:2,19 49:24
taxed 5:1 7:24

39:22 41:3

taxes 3:11 4:10
4:19,19,21,21
4:21 5:4,8 6:7
6:8,12,17,21
6:21 8:13,14
8:23,24 9:5,15
9:22 11:11,22
12:15 13:7,15
13:25 14:16
15:22 16:6
18:5,20,22

19:5 20:13
21:8,18 24:9
24:25 25:6,25
26:15,18 31:6
31:20,24 33:2
33:20,21 34:15
34:22 35:4,5
35:10,13 37:8
38:16,24 39:14
39:24 40:2,11
41:3,3 44:16
44:19 45:8
46:3 47:1 49:2
49:4 54:13,15
54:17,22

taxing 12:22
taxpayer 7:5,8
taxpayers 5:17
technically 14:6
tell 14:11
tells 18:12
Tenth 26:6
term 25:9 52:16

terms 28:16

52:17

36:11

textual 40:23

51:16,18 52:10

Thank 27:8,10
54:4,5 56:9,11

thing 21:22

29:23

things 10:12
11:18 35:7
54:11

think 6:19 14:3

15:9 17:24
19:25 25:10
26:5 31:3 32:5
32:13 33:25
35:15,22,23
36:9 40:12
46:6 50:18,19
50:19 52:9,10
thinking 15:24
thought 11:19

31:17 37:5

47:14 51:16

thousands 18:3

18:3

three 32:19
34:22 35:4
throw 46:21

48:5

tied 21:21
time 10:10,13,16
10:19,19 12:15
12:16,17 21:15
21:17 26:14
27:6 30:19
40:9 49:14,20
50:4 51:4,25
tinkering 15:13
title 7:18 22:2
today 12:14
13:12 25:4

top 20:17
total 46:19
totally 6:12
Treasury 40:8
treat 29:25 30:8

33:23 43:4,7
43:16 44:2
54:1

treated 18:25
27:18 28:22
33:22 42:3,8
42:13,16,21
46:4 54:18

treatment 28:18

45:8 49:6
51:13

tripped 38:1
trouble 21:5
true 4:15,18,19

4:20 15:14
23:25 38:13
44:25 48:6
49:10

trust 13:25
trustee 9:4,4

13:14,19 22:18
22:18 23:20
24:7 41:10,15

try 28:19,20

29:5,22 33:24
35:22

trying 20:23

29:15,15 38:6
42:6 46:9,12
47:16

Tuesday 1:9
turn 37:1,3
turnaround

11:23

turned 35:6
turns 33:7 45:13
two 26:13 27:19

28:25 40:25
41:18 49:24
52:9,24

type 29:12 44:19

47:1 49:5
52:12

typical 10:4

29:19

typically 11:19
28:19 48:23
49:9

U

Uh-huh 14:20
ultimately 9:11
unaware 20:24
uncertainty

44:13

undercuts 54:24
understand 8:7

10:17 20:23
40:18 47:12

understood 32:1
Underwriters

unfortunately

16:22

14:5

Unit 6:1
United 1:1,6,12

3:4 22:2

unpaid 14:13
15:1,6 16:3

unsecured 36:5

Alderson Reporting Company

untold 15:15,19
untrue 17:3
upwards 46:20

48:15

urge 19:4
urging 18:18
use 7:10 9:2

46:1

uses 9:5 24:24
25:9 52:16,17
55:1
UX 1:3
U.S.C 13:11

V
v 1:5 3:4
value 32:4 56:2
vanishingly

32:14

view 30:19
W

wage 37:8,16
wages 3:22,23

5:21 9:1 13:25
20:13,14 23:9
35:9 37:5,15
37:17 49:3,5

wait 26:25
want 14:10 16:5
26:24 28:19,20
29:20

wanted 14:6

28:7 45:18,21
45:21

wants 50:8

Washington 1:8

wasn't 23:3 40:4

53:19

1:18

50:7

way 5:18 14:9
29:11 37:17
41:5,19,22
42:6 45:10,16
45:22,24 46:5
51:7 53:14

ways 39:1 41:1

55:2

41:18

weren't 38:14
We'll 3:3
we're 4:24 29:25

30:13,16,25
40:17 49:11

we've 18:14
whatsoever

33:11

whoever's 14:8
wholly 24:4
win 51:8
winnings 20:14

23:10

word 15:11,15
15:16,25 16:8
55:1

words 14:9
work 30:11

37:24 48:14
54:15

works 33:4

54:23

worried 31:3
worry 50:16
wouldn't 25:5

49:1

wound 10:20
wrapped 11:20
wrench 46:21
wrong 45:22

X

x 1:2,7
XI 22:2

Y

year 10:5,7,8,14

12:3 17:13
18:22,23 32:11
46:19,21 56:4
years 11:19 12:2
38:5,6,18 39:3
39:25 44:4
year-of-filing

19:5

$

1

$29,000 30:23

30:24 54:12,13
54:16

$960,000 30:21

30:24

1 10:5,5 12:3

16:9,10 18:25
35:15 36:11

1a 51:24
10a 32:16,19

51:1,3,19

10-875 1:4 3:4
10:03 1:13 3:2
101 16:13 51:23
11 3:15 11:14

22:15,24 23:6
23:24 24:18
25:22 26:10
27:4 34:24
41:23 42:11
53:20,24
11a 46:23
11's 15:20
11:03 56:12
1129(a)(9)(A)

53:22

12 3:19 7:20
9:17 10:3,6
12:1,10 17:13
19:10,19 22:15
23:2 24:18,19
24:21 25:22
26:10 27:4,20
27:21 28:2,12
29:1 31:9 33:2
33:6 34:23
35:23 36:10,15
36:25 42:2,4
42:12,16,25
46:19 49:13,23
50:12 52:3,6
53:21,24 55:14

Official

55:24

1207 24:21
1220 14:17
1220(a)(2)(A)

33:3,11

1222 32:24 46:1
1222(a) 15:2

17:5

1222(a)(2) 28:13

32:1 36:18
50:24 51:7,8,8
52:11

1222(a)(2)(A)
3:13 19:14
20:11 27:18
28:1 31:22
32:4 43:21
46:14 54:16
55:22

1226 14:18,19

16:2,20

1226(b)(1) 14:13

14:25 27:24
42:25 50:25,25
51:13 52:21
53:10,15

1227(a) 51:19
1228 17:8
13 10:3,7 12:3

17:13 25:22,23
26:10,19 34:23
35:24 36:16,25
42:12,16,25
43:1 46:11,16
46:20,22,23
47:12,13,19,21
48:15,16,24
49:2,3,8,12,16
49:21,25 53:21
53:24 55:5

1305 25:24 26:4
26:7 46:2,7,22
54:25

1305(a)(1) 46:24

47:7 48:3,9

1326(b)(1) 42:25
1398 22:23,23

67

400,000 46:20

48:16
45 50:1

5

5 16:2 36:12
5-year 51:11
503 14:15,15
15:21 17:10
34:16

503(b) 33:15
503(b)(1)(A)

34:6

507 15:22 19:15

52:12

507(a) 16:9

28:14

507(a)(2) 14:14
14:14 15:7,7
53:10

507(a)(8) 18:18

56:7
54 2:10

6

6 36:12
600 46:18
6012(b)(3) 41:7

41:7,9,16

7

7 22:23 23:23

24:3 25:15,17
27:5 36:12,12
41:22

700 46:19
8

8 36:12 49:14

9
90 49:25
960 13:12

33:16 37:23
40:17

1399 7:1 21:25

23:6 33:16
37:23 40:17

14a 41:9
15 26:12
15th 26:13
16a 45:1
18 31:13
18a 45:1
1966 13:3
1972 39:19 40:8
1978 33:8 38:23
39:5,18,23,25
1980 33:9 40:1
1986 7:16 33:9

42:4

1998 44:25 45:2

2

2 10:7 11:13,19

12:2 15:8
16:10 35:15
36:11 38:5,18
38:20 39:2,25
54:7

2005 12:14 44:4
2011 1:9
27 2:7
28 13:11
29 1:9

3

3 2:4 10:8,14
11:19 12:2
36:11 51:11
3-year 11:13
346 6:5,6 7:6

33:15 38:15,19
38:21 39:13,23
40:9

346(b) 6:9,13,20

37:23

4

4 36:12 38:6
49:12 50:2

Alderson Reporting Company

