Official

1

       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION,  :
ET AL.,                           :
            Petitioners           :  No. 10-1024
       v.                         :
STANMORE CAWTHON COOPER.          :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Wednesday, November 30, 2011

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:07 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
ERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
   General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
   Petitioners.
RAYMOND A. CARDOZO, ESQ., San Francisco, California; for
   Respondent.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

2

                     C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
ERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
RAYMOND A. CARDOZO, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondent                      24
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
ERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     47

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

3

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

                     P R O C E E D I N G S
                                  (11:07 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
next in Case 10-1024, Federal Aviation Administration v.
Cooper.
            Mr. Feigin.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC J. FEIGIN
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. FEIGIN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            If Congress had intended to waive the
sovereign immunity of the United States to allow
uncapped emotional distress claims under the Privacy
Act, it would have and was required to state that waiver
clearly and unambiguously in the statutory text.
            The substantive requirements of the Act
sweep far beyond any pre-existing common law protection
of privacy to impose a detailed set of new and pervasive
requirements on the collection, maintenance, use, and
dissemination of millions of Federal agency records.
The Act, for example, forbids agencies from keeping too
much information about an individual; compels agencies
to collect information about an individual, when
practicable, from the individual himself and not from
other sources; and can require agencies to safeguard

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

4

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

information about an individual even when that
information is otherwise already publicly available.
            Congress would not have taken lightly the
question of whether to expose the United States to
expansive damages for intentional or willful violations
of these novel recordkeeping requirements.  Indeed, the
way in which the district court believed that the Social
Security Administration violated the Privacy Act in this
case is something that never would have been actionable
at common law and never would have resulted in emotional
distress recovery.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Then maybe Congress
shouldn't have passed this statute.  But the injury, the
invasion of privacy, that's not something where
pecuniary damages are -- are prime if they exist at all.
I mean, this is -- the -- the tort that this is
comparable to is intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  The -- the person who is subject to this, to
this embarrassment, this humiliation, doesn't have
out-of-pocket costs but is terribly distressed, nervous,
anxious, and all the rest.
            The -- the act that the Congress is
reaching, the impact of it is of that nature, not -- I
mean, pecuniary damages do not ordinarily attend conduct
that embarrasses, humiliates you, causes mental

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

5

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

distress.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, first of all, Justice
Ginsburg, I'd like to respectfully disagree with the
premise of the question that the Privacy Act is
comparable to common law invasion of privacy.  All the
requirements I just described that are under the Privacy
Act would not have existed at common law invasion of
privacy even though common law invasion of privacy was,
as you say, compensable with emotional distress awards.
In fact, even if we focus just on the disclosure-related
provision of the Privacy Act, it itself is much broader
than common law invasion of privacy.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Even if it is -- even if
it is, the damages are -- the damages are not of a
pecuniary kind.  So, you could say that Congress was
much more generous than the common law was, but the
impact on the person who is suing is not going to be
out-of-pocket business loss, pecuniary loss; it's going
to be the embarrassment, the humiliation.  So, it's --
it's -- if Congress wanted to do something about the
impact on the person it has given a right, it's not
going to do something that has to do with pecuniary
damages which it's not likely the person in -- in this
plaintiff's situation is not likely to suffer.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, first of all, Your Honor,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

6

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

there sometimes are, as there were at common law,
pecuniary damages resulting from either violations of
the Privacy Act or invasions of privacy; and the
government sometimes pays out very large pecuniary
judgments.
            But to get to the core of your question
about why Congress might not in the Privacy Act have
provided an emotional distress award, I think the text
of the Act demonstrates that Congress thought about the
possibility of providing an emotional distress award,
but decided not to do that in the initial version of the
Act that it passed in 1974.  Instead, that version of
the Act in section 5(c)(2)(B)(iii) assigned to the
Privacy Protection Study Commission the task of making a
recommendation as to whether the Act should later be
expanded to provide for general damages.
            The commission understood its mission to
determine -- was to determine whether the Act ought to
be expanded to provide for dignitary and reputational
harms, such as compensation for emotional distress.  And
the Privacy Commission further understood that the Act
as it had been enacted provided only for actual damages,
which it interpreted as synonymous with special damages.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But that's the -- why --
is -- is a harm to a dignitary interest, is that an

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

7

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

actual injury?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor, I --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You describe that
injury -- I mean, it is an injury, the emotional
distress, the humiliation.  Is that an actual injury?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Your Honor, the term "actual
injury" and the term "actual damages" -- those are
ambiguous terms.  Sometimes they might include emotional
distress, and sometimes they might not.  And --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, let's take this
case.  Did the plaintiff suffer an actual injury?
            MR. FEIGIN:  He did not --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  At least, did he allege
that he had suffered an actual injury?
            MR. FEIGIN:  He did not suffer actual
damages within the meaning of the Privacy Act.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I didn't -- I didn't ask
you that.  I asked you, did he suffer an actual injury,
as opposed to someone who is complaining about
something -- an abstract right or an abstract theory?
Is there an actual injury here?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor, I think my
difficulty with the question is that I don't think the
term "actual injury" has some plain meaning out of
context.  And the term that the Privacy Act uses is

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

8

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

"actual damages."  I think in the context of the Privacy
Act, as well as in other contexts --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, you have to have an
injury first before you can get damages.  So, my
question is, was there an injury?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, if Your Honor's question
is whether he suffered an adverse effect within the
meaning of --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Yes.
            MR. FEIGIN:  -- section (g)(1)(D) of the
Act, yes, we believe he did suffer an adverse effect
sufficient to confer standing.  But this Court in Doe
described the adverse effect requirement as simply
codifying the Article III standing requirements and made
very clear that simply because a plaintiff may have
suffered an adverse effect, that doesn't mean that the
plaintiff suffered actual damages.  But,
Justice Ginsburg --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm a little bit
confused by that because in your brief, the Solicitor
General's brief in Doe, it described the earlier version
of general damages in the following way -- and I'm
quoting from your brief there:  "The general damages
provision in the Senate bill likely derived from the
common law of tort of invasion of privacy where general

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

9

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

damages may be awarded as" -- quote -- "'presumed
damages,' without proof of harm."
            So, I think there in Doe you argued that
general damages presumed injury.  But that's very
different than, I think, the question Justice Ginsburg
was asking you.  It's -- and I read your brief and your
arguments as sort of an -- an assumption that if you
suffer nonpecuniary harm, you haven't been injured.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  There's a big difference
between presumed damages and proven injury.  In Gertz,
we reference the common law tort as requiring actual
proof of injury for emotional distress.  Most State laws
say you have to prove the emotional distress.  We're not
presuming the injury.  So, I guess what I'm saying to
you, aren't you the one confusing what injury is from
presumed damage?
            MR. FEIGIN:  I hope not, Your Honor.  But
the -- the -- I think to get at your question, what we
said in the Doe brief is that general damages are a type
of presumed damages, and that's correct under the common
law, but that isn't all that general damages
encompasses.  General damages, as the Court recognized
in Doe, are always presumed in the sense that they're
always assumed -- this is the common law definition of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

10

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

general damages -- are always presumed in the sense
they're always assumed to have taken place and an award
of general damages can be made even without specific
proof of harm.  But in cases where a -- at common law,
in cases where a plaintiff did introduce evidence of the
extent of, for example, the emotional distress that he
had suffered -- so, if he wanted to say I'm not happy
with the presumed damages that you would give to just
anybody who had suffered this invasion of privacy, I
have a particularly sterling reputation or I am
particularly sensitive to this sort of thing, I suffered
a -- an increased amount of harm from what you might
presume the average person would suffer, the award that
that person would receive is --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, why is that
different from actual injury?  I have -- I'm not
sleeping.  I have a nervous stomach.  I'm not eating.
The typical things that juries look at to determine
whether you've proven emotional distress --
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Why is that not actual
injury?
            MR. FEIGIN:  So, the award that person would
receive for the additional proof of emotional distress
would be classified as general damages.  Now, to get to

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

11

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

your question of why that's not actual damages.
Sometimes the terms "actual damages" or "actual injury"
can be used to include proven emotional distress, but
the term was ambiguous.  We cite cases in footnotes 1
and 2 of our reply brief in which the term "actual
damages" or "actual damage" is used to mean exclusively
pecuniary harm.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I've looked at those
cases, and in all of them except for two, where the
reference wasn't really precise, it was because the use
of "actual damages" in the particular statute were
limited to pecuniary harms or the nature of the harms at
issue were pecuniary by nature.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor, most of those
cases are cases out of the common law, and sometimes
they use "actual damages" in the same sentence with a
reference to emotional harm, making clear that they
think that the two types of harms are separate.
            But, Your Honor, maybe I can try to explain
it this way:  I think actually Respondent implicitly
agrees with our definition of general damages as
including proven harm.  If you look at footnote 2 on
page 20 of the red brief and then again at page 22 of
the red brief, the definition of "actual damages" that
Respondent is offering he divides into two

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

12

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

subcategories:  special damages and general damages.
Everybody agrees that special damages are limited to
pecuniary harm.
            And Respondent makes no claim, nor could he,
that the type of damages he's seeking are special
damages.  So, to the extent he thinks that he's entitled
to recovery under the Act, it's because he thinks that
the emotional distress harm that he wants to prove are
general damages.  And if there's one thing we know about
the definition of "actual damages" in the Act, it's that
it doesn't include general damages, because, again,
Congress separately in the text of the Privacy Act
assigned the Privacy Protection Study Commission to make
a recommendation about whether the Act should later be
expanded to include general damages.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What does "actual
damages" mean under the Fair Credit Reporting Act?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Your Honor, we don't have a
position on that at this point.  I can describe to you
how we think that the inquiry would work.  We think that
in some statutes actual damages might in context include
emotional distress awards.  But the term "actual
damages" by itself in a waiver of sovereign immunity is
not a clear and unambiguous waiver of the United States'
sovereign immunity for claims of emotional distress.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

13

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            And as to statutes which do not allow claims
against the United States, it would be a question of
context and legislative history.  And we'd have to do
the same kind of workup of the Fair Credit Reporting Act
that we've done of the Privacy Act in this case.  One --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it can mean, and I
think it has been held to mean, damages to a dignitary
interest.  Mental distress has been held to -- the term
has been held to mean that under the Fair Credit
Reporting Act.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Yes, Your Honor.  Multiple
courts of appeals have held that, and we're not
questioning that conclusion for purposes of this case
with the caveat that we don't think the United States is
subject to suit under the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
            If the United States were subject to suit
under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, then because
there's ambiguity about the meaning of "actual damages,"
we think that the narrower interpretation as limited to
pecuniary harm would control.
            One other distinction between the Fair
Credit Reporting Act and the Privacy Act is, again, as
I've said, the Privacy Act specifically carves out
general damages as a type of damages that aren't going
to be awarded, and the Fair Credit Reporting Act does

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

14

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

not.
            The Fair Credit Reporting Act also has a
much more permissive remedial scheme, allowing in
certain cases for statutory damages and also allowing
for punitive damages.  I don't think the Fair Credit
Reporting Act, for the various reasons I've just
mentioned, is a particularly good analogue for the
Privacy Act.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Under --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Just to question what the
term means, what the term "actual damages" means.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor, again, as
we've demonstrated in our briefs, I think -- again, I'd
refer the Court to footnotes 1 and 2 for how this term
was used at the common law -- the term "actual damages"
can mean both things.
            So, the fact that in the Privacy Act it
does include -- it may include emotional distress awards
doesn't mean that that's the sense in which Congress
used it in the Privacy Act -- I'm sorry; I may have said
that wrong.  The fact that in the context of the Fair
Credit Reporting Act it may include emotional distress
doesn't mean that that's the way in which Congress used
it in the Privacy Act.  And I think --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Are there -- are there

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

15

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

instances where, if there's an invasion of privacy and
there's a documented trauma from psychosomatic illness
with medical expenses and lost wages, is that special --
is that actual damage?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Yes, Your Honor.  If there are
documented medical expenses that were out-of-pocket
expenses, then we think, even if they arise from
emotional distress, then they would be pecuniary harm
and could be compensated under the Privacy Act.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm sorry.  Are you
arguing that the emotional distress component can't be?
            MR. FEIGIN:  The emotional distress
component itself cannot be, but medical expenses to
treat symptoms of emotional distress --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, you're -- under --
as I understand the definition of "special damages" in
common law, if you proved any pecuniary harm, you were
also entitled to the mental distress damages as well.
So, you want half of the common law award -- award?
            MR. FEIGIN:  I don't think that's quite
correct about the definition of "special damages," Your
Honor.  And I don't think there is any dispute on this.
"Special damages," the term in this context, is always
limited to pecuniary harm.  Once --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  We may have a difference

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

16

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

of -- of history there because, yes, special damages
required pecuniary harm, but once you prove that, it
also permitted recovery of nonpecuniary losses as well.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor, in a common
law suit for defamation per quod --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But that's what your
brief said, actually.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, no, Your Honor.  What we
said in our brief is, in a common lawsuit for defamation
per quod, there are two types of damages that could be
recovered:  special damages and general damages.  Unless
a -- special damages were limited to pecuniary harm.
Unless a plaintiff could prove at least some special
damages, they wouldn't be entitled to any recovery at
all.  If a plaintiff could prove some special damages,
they could recover not only special damages -- in other
words, pecuniary harm -- but could also recover general
damages; that is, damages for emotional distress or
other dignitary --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  We're not talking any
differently.  That's what I just said.  If you --
            MR. FEIGIN:  Yes, Your Honor.  I think to
the extent I was perhaps disagreeing with you is I was
understanding you to say that the definition of "special
damages," the term, sometimes includes emotional

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

17

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

distress awards.  The term "special damages" is limited
to pecuniary harm.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Sort of odd for Congress
to borrow from the defamation context and with a defined
term of art, "special damages," and not use it in the
Privacy Act if that's what it intended.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  And to use a term,
"actual damages," which has a much broader meaning than
"special damages."
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor, as the Court
recognized in Doe, there's a structural similarity
between the civil remedies provision of the Privacy Act
and the remedial scheme for defamation per quod at
common law.  And I think one reason there might be that
structural similarity is that defamation per quod at
common law solves the problem that Congress faced when
it was crafting the Privacy Act, which is trying to
figure out when a plaintiff's injuries are sufficiently
serious and concrete as to justify an award of damages.
            I think it makes sense if, as the Court
supposed in Doe, Congress were aware of how defamation
per quod had solved that problem, that Congress would
have adopted the same limitation -- in other words, a
requirement of showing of pecuniary harm -- as the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

18

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

threshold requirement under the Privacy Act.
            Now, Congress had very good reason to be
cautious about extending the scope of liability under
the Privacy Act.  As I've said, the Privacy Act
regulates a great deal of conduct that wouldn't have
been compensable at all in common law, let alone
resulted in any sort of emotional distress award.
            Now, Congress recognized, I think, some of
the concerns that Justice Ginsburg and Justice Sotomayor
have raised about why plaintiffs might in some instances
deserve recovery for emotional distress.  But it
recognized that there are arguments on both sides -- on
both sides on that issue.  And what it decided to do in
the Privacy Act was to defer that issue for later and
assign the Privacy Protection Study Commission to make a
recommendation about whether the scope of liability that
the Act --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, the -- the Privacy
Study Commission coming after can't say what the statute
means.  I mean, that would be post-legislative history.
I mean, the statute exists, and then we have a Study
Commission to see what amendments might be made.  But
the Study Commission can't decide what the -- what the
Act means.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, two points on that, Your

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

19

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Honor:  First of all, the reference of the general
damages issue to the Privacy Protection Study Commission
is in the text of the Act that Congress enacted in 1974.
So, the exclusion of general damages doesn't depend at
all on anything the Privacy Protection Study Commission
said.
            As to the weight we think the Privacy
Protection Study Commission report should receive, first
of all we think it's very telling evidence that there is
at the very least ambiguity about what the term "actual
damages" could mean.  The Privacy Protection Study
Commission interpreted the term "actual damages" in
precisely the same way that we do in our brief; that is,
as special damages, as that term was understood in
defamation torts at common law, which the Privacy
Protection Commission Study report makes very clear at
page 530 is limited to pecuniary harm.
            I think, if for no other reason than that
that's a reasonable reading, I think the sort of
judicial restraint that is embodied in the canon that
requires courts to construe waivers of sovereign
immunity narrowly requires this Court to adopt that
narrower reading, because it shows that the narrower
reading is at the very least a reasonable one or, as the
Court said in Nordic Village, is a plausible one.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

20

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            I think it would have been very unusual for
Congress silently or ambiguously to have decided to open
the door to emotional distress awards under the Privacy
Act.  As I've said, the Privacy Act is quite a broad,
substantive act that would have exposed the government
to damages in -- in very new ways.  And I think this
case illustrates -- illustrates that.
            The district court here concluded that the
law enforcement-related disclosure of Respondent's
medical information by the Social Security
Administration was, in fact, authorized under the
Privacy Act by routine use published in the Federal
Register.  But it concluded that Respondent could
nevertheless bring suit against the Federal Government
under the Privacy Act because the forms he filled out in
seeking Social Security disability benefits didn't
adequately disclose to him that his information might be
released to other government agencies for law
enforcement purposes.
            I don't think there's any reason why
Congress would necessarily think that an omission on a
government form should give rise to a claim for
emotional distress damages.  There certainly wouldn't
have been any analogue for it at common law.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But that's just saying

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

21

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

that he didn't have a good claim for relief.  But let's
take the worst case, where -- where a government
official spreads all kinds of false information or even
true but terribly embarrassing information about a
person, does it deliberately.  Let's take that case,
because your rule covers all of them.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, in that case, Your Honor,
the plaintiff might have a claim under the Federal Tort
Claims Act based on a violation of some State law
statutory or common law privacy protection.  So, the
category of cases that would have constituted invasion
of privacy prior to the Privacy Act might still be
available to a plaintiff, who might then recover
emotional distress damages against the government.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But wasn't that the very
thing that Congress -- why did they pass this in the
first place?  I mean, Congress was thinking of emotional
distress injuries.
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, they passed it, Your
Honor, because they wanted, in the wake of Watergate, to
impose a set of detailed substantive requirements about
Federal recordkeeping.  I think the -- you know, looking
through the Act, which takes up maybe 30 pages of the
petition appendix, it clearly isn't simply a
codification of common law invasion of privacy against

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

22

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the Federal Government.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it's --
            MR. FEIGIN:  It does much, much more than
that.
            Your Honor, even if we look just at the
disclosure-related provision, it's broader than common
law invasion of privacy in two very important ways.  So,
for common law invasion of privacy, a plaintiff would
have to prove disclosure of very personal and private
information to the public at large.  Under the Privacy
Act, however, a disclosure even to a single person would
constitute a violation of the Act, and the information
doesn't even have to be private.
            Let me give a concrete example.  So, if the
government has a record that contains information that
someone has a criminal conviction, it might be a
violation of the Privacy Act for the contents of that
record to be disclosed, even though someone could obtain
the same information by going to the court records or
potentially looking them up on the Internet.
            And particularly since violations of Federal
law are typically -- typically, the only type of relief
a plaintiff can seek for violation of Federal law is
equitable relief under the Administrative Procedure Act.
I don't think there's any reason to assume that Congress

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

23

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

ambiguously or, I think, really silently decided that it
was going to ratchet things up to a serious degree and
expose the United States to uncapped emotional distress
damages under the Privacy Act.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It did set a pretty high
bar for the plaintiff to meet, because the plaintiff
would have to prove intentional or willful conduct, not
negligence, but --
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, three points on that,
Your Honor.
            First of all, I think if Congress had
thought that the limitation to intentional or willful
conduct was itself a sufficient limitation on the
liability of the United States, it wouldn't have been so
reluctant to provide for general damages or perhaps even
for punitive damages.
            Second, the courts of appeals now generally
interpret the intentional or willful requirement to
require only something slightly less than recklessness
or slightly more than gross negligence, which in
practice provides district courts and courts of appeals
with a great deal of flexibility to find intentional or
willful violations in cases where the Federal Government
doesn't believe it should be liable.
            Third, to the extent the intentional or

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

24

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

willful requirement does impose a limitation on a
plaintiff's recovery, what actually winds up happening
in practice is that plaintiffs or courts will look to
all the various technical provisions of the Privacy Act
to try to find some violation that can be classified as
intentional or willful.  So, for example, if a plaintiff
about whom information has been disclosed can't show the
disclosure is intentional or willful, he may try to
prove that a violation of the -- of (e)(10), which
requires the government to safeguard information, was
intentional or willful.
            With the Court's permission, I'd like to
reserve the balance of my time.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Cardozo.
           ORAL ARGUMENT OF RAYMOND A. CARDOZO
               ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
            MR. CARDOZO:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            Embracing the Government's view of "actual
damages" would mean that the very individuals Congress
sought to protect in this Act would have no remedy at
all for the primary form of harm that was well
recognized at common law when this Act was passed.
            To carry out the Act's protective purposes,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

25

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

this Court need only give the words "actual damages"
their common and ordinary meaning that appears in
Black's Law Dictionary:  proven, not presumed,
liquidated, punitive, or other forms of damages that are
not tied to proof of harm.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Could I ask you this
question about the damages that your client is seeking
in this case?  If -- if we affirm the Ninth Circuit,
would -- are you claiming all of the damages that -- all
of the emotional damages that resulted from his criminal
conviction, or are you claiming only the emotional
damages that would have been suffered by anybody else
whose records were turned over to the FAA under the
Operation Safe Pilot program?
            MR. CARDOZO:  If you affirm, there will be a
proximate causation question that arises on remand.  The
Act requires the damages to be the result of the
violation.  So, he cannot recover for the emotional
distress that followed from the prosecution.
            But, as Justice Ginsburg pointed out, we're
talking today not just about Mr. Cooper; we're talking
about every single person to whom this Act applies:  the
whistleblower who the government chooses to silence by
embarrassing and humiliating them --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, you allege that Mr.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

26

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Cooper suffered a severe emotional distress when he was
confronted with the fact that his records had been
turned over.  So, you're -- you're saying that the
court -- that on remand, there would have to be a
separation of the degree of distress that he suffered as
a result of simply knowing that somebody in the FAA had
access to his Social Security records, but disregard the
distress that somebody in that situation would naturally
feel when confronted with the fact that a criminal
violation that he had committed had been exposed?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Yes.  And that's the kind of
thing judges routinely have to sort through.  For
example, someone suffers emotional distress and then
they lose their job thereafter, and the injury that
produces the emotional distress, the job -- the job loss
wasn't the proximate cause.
            Judges -- in fact, we ask juries to do that.
In this case, it would be a judge sifting through that
and making that determination.  As happened in
Petitioner Doe's case, the judge could find that the
emotional distress claim wasn't sufficient and reject it
altogether, but that's the nature of an emotional
distress remedy.
            One thing you didn't hear in that argument
almost at all was any discussion of the text of this

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

27

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Act, which tells you in at least four separate ways that
"actual damages" simply means proven, not presumed,
damages.
            Beginning with the words themselves, that's,
of course, the most common meaning of "actual damages,"
the one that appears in Black's Law Dictionary.  As
Justice Sotomayor pointed out, the term of art for
economic loss in this arena is "special damages."  If
that's what Congress meant, presumably it would have
used that term.  It's the more common way to express one
category of damages only.  That's economic --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  But you agree that the Act
does not allow recovery for what would have been
regarded at common law as general damages?
            MR. CARDOZO:  What would have been regarded
at common law as presumed -- the presumed damages, this
Act doesn't allow.  That was peeled off for further
study.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  "General damages" -- that's
the term that they peeled off, right?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Right.  But by keeping
"actual," the juxtaposition between actual and
general --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  But general damages is a
term from -- from the remedies in defamation cases,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

28

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

right?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Yes.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And there are two types of
damages in defamation cases, special damages and general
damages?  And if you -- is that correct?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Correct.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  So, you subtract general
damages, and what do you have left?
            MR. CARDOZO:  But the interesting thing in
this case is they didn't take what you have left,
special damages, and they used a different term,
Congress did, "actual," a term that suggests we're going
to require proof of the damages.  We're not going to
presume them.  We're not going to allow speculative
damages.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  But the problem is that --
that your definition of actual damages and the general
definition of actual damages includes some things that
fell within the rubric of general damages.
            MR. CARDOZO:  That's true.  But several
other things in the text of the Act tell you, again,
that "actual" means simply proven, not presumed.  If you
look at the section 2, where Congress recites findings
and the statement of purposes for the Act, the right
that's being described here is an individual and

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

29

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

personal right of privacy, well understood, well settled
at the time to be a right that was primarily
nonpecuniary in nature.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, let me just try this
one more time.  You -- you say that there's a right to
recover actual damages but no right to recover general
damages.  So, what you think is recoverable is actual
damages minus general damages?
            MR. CARDOZO:  No.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  No?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Our position is what is
recoverable is actual damages, the damages you prove,
substantiate.  A judge can reject it if they find it
unsubstantiated as happened in Petitioner Doe's case.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But -- but we --
            MR. CARDOZO:  But you can't presume --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Courts don't -- courts
don't allow recovery for conjectural or speculative
damages.  That's just -- that's just -- or am I wrong?
Do Federal courts --
            MR. CARDOZO:  No, but in this --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- routinely tell juries,
now you can come in with conjectural or speculative
damages?  That's not the way juries are instructed.
            MR. CARDOZO:  But you can in this arena at

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

30

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

common law presume damages from the nature of the
violation.  That is what was carved out, the ability to
presume it, rather than present evidence and subject it
to proof.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Can you tell me what your
response is to the Government's argument that the
Privacy Commission which was set up understood the word
"actual damages" at the time the way they understand it?
What's your response to that?  I -- are they right about
that in your opinion?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Apart from the obvious that
the post-enactment report was --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No, I'm asking you what --
            MR. CARDOZO:  But -- but -- yes, on the
underlying point, several things.  The commission --
this is a -- two paragraphs in a 620-page report that
doesn't run through the text of the Act, it's purpose,
all of the things one normally does in statutory
construction.  So, where they draw this conclusion is
entirely --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.
            MR. CARDOZO:  -- opaque.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  So, am I right in saying
your -- you would agree with them that that is how the
Privacy Commission understood the Act, but in your

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

31

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

opinion, the Privacy Commission was wrong?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Yes, with one other -- with
one other proviso I would add.  There's a little bit of
ambiguity.  You see the Privacy Commission in this two
pages was trying to sell Congress on the notion of
expanding the remedy.  So, it wrote on pages 530 of its
reports:  "If the rights and interests established in
the Privacy Act are worthy of protection, then recovery
for intangible injuries such as pain and suffering, loss
of reputation, or the chilling effect on constitutional
rights is a part of that protection.  There is evidence
for this proposition in common law privacy cases."
            Surely, Congress knew that very thing.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And by "pain and
suffering," they mean mental pain and suffering?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Right.  Surely, Congress knew
that same thing.  So, when it enacted this Act, it did
not mean to cut out the primary form of harm.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Thank you.
            MR. CARDOZO:  Another --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What -- what the Government
would say is -- is that -- and they have their own
dictionary definitions.  I don't -- I don't think it's
accurate to say that Black's Law Dictionary defines
"actual damages" the way you would have it defined.  As

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

32

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

I recall, their briefing gives some other definitions
from an earlier version of Black's or whatever.
            But what they say about the commission
understanding, which you acknowledge to be contrary to
your understanding of actual damages, what they say is
that at least shows that it isn't clear what "actual
damages" means.  And -- and in their estimation, once
you -- once you establish that it isn't clear, then you
trigger the -- the rule that waivers of sovereign
immunity will not be considered to have any scope except
that scope which is clear.
            MR. CARDOZO:  Well, that's why it's critical
to understand the analysis, because you can't say
there's a genuine ambiguity unless you understand how
they arrived at that conclusion.  The meaning of "actual
damages" can vary with the context, but it's usually
crystal clear in each context what you're talking about.
            In this privacy context, it's fairly clear.
We have a provision at page 66a of the appendix, section
2(b), where Congress recites of purpose of this remedies
provision, and it states the purpose is to hold the
United States liable "for any damages which occur as a
result of."
            The notable thing about that statement of
purpose, "which occur as a result of," lines up

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

33

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

precisely with proven, not presumed, damages.  But "any
damages which occur as a result of" conflicts directly
with the notion of only one category of damages as being
authorized.  That's Congress's statement of purpose for
this very provision.  That aligns.  Mr. Cooper's
construction aligns.  The Government creates disharmony
in the statute.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  This would save me some
time possibly, but my guess is, and you may know, that
every State or many States have statutes or tort laws or
something against invasion of privacy.  Now, you may
know how many.  And -- and if you know how many, that's
helpful.  And of those, if you know how many, how many
of them, and perhaps all, provide damages for mental
suffering caused by a violation of that particular
tort-like provision?
            Do you know anything about those statistics?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Justice Breyer, you've given
me a little bit too much credit.  I can't give you a
number of States, but I can tell you that I'm not aware
of any State that disallows.  It is by far the general
rule, and I think it's universal, that recovery of
mental and emotional distress for invasion of the
privacy.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Do you know enough to know

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

34

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

if they've done so through the use of a term like
"actual damages," that one or analogous thereto, or
whether they've had to have some special form of words?
            MR. CARDOZO:  I don't know that.  So,
I'll --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of course, you're talking
about statutes that require that the material have been
made public, not that, say, establish a violation if one
agency provides the information to another agency?  I
mean, as the Government points out, this -- this statute
goes far beyond any -- any State statutory or common law
protections of privacy.  It's really very picky, picky.
            And -- and to say that, you know, whatever
emotional harm comes from that is -- is quite different
from saying that under State privacy laws emotional
distress is compensable.
            MR. CARDOZO:  Yes, but we're all here today
only talking about the narrow category of cases in which
there's an intentional and willful violation.  So, they
knew the law prevented them from doing what they did.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, that's right.  But
all you have to know is that you shouldn't give it to
the other agency, because you're not making it public.
You're not doing the kind of thing that constitutes an

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

35

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

invasion of privacy under State law.  You've just
failed, intentionally failed, to follow the very
detailed and, as I say, picky, picky prescriptions
contained in the Privacy Act.
            To say that you get emotional distress for
that as opposed to genuine -- what I would call genuine
privacy incursions, which State law covers, is a
different question.
            MR. CARDOZO:  But -- but this provision is
covering the range of intentional and willful violations
covered in the Act.  The example of the whistleblower
who you want to silence, so you leak the most
embarrassing details to the press, shaming and
humiliating them in front of friends and family -- don't
leave the house for a month, but you haven't lost your
job, and you're not out of pocket -- zero remedy, zero.
That's the Government's construction.
            And look at section 2, how Congress
described this Act.  They didn't say we're imposing some
picayune technical requirements.  They're saying we're
doing this to safeguard individual rights of privacy.
They use the very lingo; they analogized it unmistakably
and explicitly to the common law kind of invasion of
privacy for which emotional distress is routinely
recoverable.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

36

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Do you have any
statistics on the percentage of actions brought under
the Privacy Act in which the plaintiff was able to
establish pecuniary harm?
            MR. CARDOZO:  I don't have any statistics on
that.  The one thing I can tell you is that this has
been the law in the Fifth Circuit for well over
30 years, and as the Government -- and prior to Doe v.
Chao, the rule was, in most circuits, you didn't have to
show any damages.  And yet, at that point, a good
37 years after the Act had come into existence, the
Government stood up here and admitted that far broader
construction of the Act than we are talking about today
had no meaningful effect on the public --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You say that in the Fifth
Circuit or the Ninth Circuit for -- for many years?
            MR. CARDOZO:  This case is in -- coming out
of the Ninth Circuit, but the Fifth Circuit has the
rule.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Has had this for a long
time.  Okay.
            MR. CARDOZO:  In the early '80s, it first
recognized emotional distress.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Are you aware of any
runaway verdicts based on awards of mental damage proof?

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

37

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. CARDOZO:  The only case that I'm aware
of --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I define "runaway
awards" as those in -- in six figures or above.
            MR. CARDOZO:  No.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Or even high five
figures.
            MR. CARDOZO:  The highest that I can think
of at the moment was a case out of the Fifth Circuit
called Jacobs in which a Federal agency revealed --
leaked to the press information falsely suggesting a
bank president was a money launderer.  He got 100,000 in
emotional distress, but that's a pretty extreme
situation.  The vast majority, it's going to be modest.
And I would say he should get $100,000 in emotional
distress.  He's an upstanding member of the community
and he's being called a common criminal; he might not
have suffered any pecuniary loss, but he has suffered
actual damages.
            One other thing about the text that tells
you -- again, all of these points -- points align with
Mr. Cooper's construction and produce disharmony to the
other side.  Look at the breadth of the language
Congress used to waive sovereign immunity in subsection
(g) of the Act.  Recall that the Government's

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

38

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

construction is only one small category of plaintiffs,
who are the victims of intentional and willful
violations, can recover.  Yet, the text says in any suit
in which a court determines that there's been
intentional and willful violation, the United States
shall be liable for actual damages.
            If what we mean is only one small category,
economic damages, is serving as a substantial reduction
in the category of cases that can be brought, you'd
expect to see that limitation appear after the
"intentional and willful" in any suit in which a court
determines there has been willful, intentional violation
and the plaintiff has suffered economic loss, because it
is a substantially narrowing term.
            However, if "actual damages" simply means
proven, not presumed, this wording is perfectly natural
and flows exactly.  Again, every place you look in the
text of the Act, proven, not presumed, aligns.
"Economic only" is a square peg in a round hole in the
text of this Act.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  In -- in your argument, do
you have to avoid the concession that the term might be
ambiguous?  I know your position is that liability for
damages is expressly waived, but then you stop there,
and you -- and you say that -- you resist the idea that

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

39

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the definition of actual damages has to be unambiguous.
Is that a fair characterization of your argument?
            MR. CARDOZO:  I would modify it slightly.
What the Government is talking about is an ambiguity in
the abstract.  They're lifting the two words out of the
context of the Act.  Like any phrase, "actual damages"
can mean different things in different contexts.  But in
this statute, when you run through the tools of
construction, it's not ambiguous.  And that's --
that's --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  That -- that's a different
point.  And the question went to whether you acknowledge
the need to be unambiguous.  Now, what the Government
says is, of course, the -- the waiver of sovereign
immunity, you would acknowledge, must be unambiguous,
but the Government says further, moreover, the scope of
the waiver of -- of sovereign immunity must be
unambiguous.  Whether you have waived it only with
respect to pecuniary damages or also with respect to
emotional harm, that also must be unambiguous.  And --
and you deny that second step, don't you?  You think --
            MR. CARDOZO:  Actually we don't, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You don't?
            MR. CARDOZO:  And this is how I would
clarify it.  What the doctrine of sovereign immunity

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

40

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

requires is that the waiver be expressed in text, and
the court can't read it in.  It can't add words to the
text.  If you -- if your intent is to separate out
presumed liquidated, punitive, other forms of damages
that do not -- are not tethered to proof of harm,
"actual damages" is a phrase that does that precisely
because that's what "actual" means; it means real.
            There's no ordinary definition of "actual"
where it means pecuniary only, that is -- you get when
you use it in certain contexts.  So, this Court doesn't
need to add, expand, or read anything into these words,
"actual damages."  It simply needs to give them the
meaning that they have in ordinary English definitions,
in Black's Law definition.  This definition this Court
gave to actual damages in the Birdsall case over a
hundred years ago is the same thing:  presumed -- proven
damages, not presumed.  So, the waiver of sovereign
immunity is here expressed; it doesn't arise by
implication.
            But the one -- but there's another side to
the sovereign immunity point that the Government never
mentions.  The court's obligation is dual here.  When
there has been a waiver, the court can't expand that
waiver, but neither can it contract it.  You have here
the Government spinning out theoretical -- theoretical

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

41

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

possibilities that actual damages was -- was used in
this more peculiar sense; what it really meant was
special damages -- to produce a deconstruction of the
statute that eviscerates it, leaves most of the people
who suffer intentional, willful violations without any
remedy at all.  And those who happen to have an economic
loss do not get compensation for the primary form of
harm from a privacy violation.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The argument you've
made, and I certainly understand it, that this is the
Privacy Act, and so it's precisely these types of
damages that you'd be concerned about, really cuts both
ways.  I mean, what you're saying is this is a really
big chunk of damages, because this is what the whole Act
was about.  And it seems to me that that argument
suggests that there's some weight to the Government's
point that, well, if you're going to get into that, you
really do need a clear waiver of sovereign immunity.
            MR. CARDOZO:  Absolutely, but -- but that
circles back to my point that if you're going to -- if
your intent is to say presumed, not proven, "actual"
fits exactly.  "Special" is the term that wasn't used
here.  So, to fault Congress for picking a term that
means precisely "proven, not presumed," and say you
weren't clear enough, that's asking too much,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

42

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

particularly when they also said -- in their statement
of purpose, they spoke to the remedies provision and
said "any damages which occur as a result of."  They
used the sweepingly broad language.  They did multiple
things to say -- reveal no doubt about its intent.
            And recall the rule from the Morissette and
Molzof case when Congress is legislating against a
common law background.  The rule is if Congress's
silence is taken as an indication that Congress intends
to follow established norms, not depart from them, when
Congress says "actual damages" in a privacy context,
it's fair to -- it's going to assume that people are
going to understand that at common law, actual damages
included emotional distress for privacy violations.
            So, rather than assuming that it departed
from the common law, we typically require a contrary
direction, under Morissette and Molzof, and you don't
have that contrary direction here.
            And you get the same answer as you roll
through -- you don't need to look -- go past the text,
but you get the same answer as you roll through all of
the tools of construction:  The common law background
and the Morisette/Molzof rule points you to the same
place.  The legislative history.  This Act, the Act that
emerged, was a compromise between a far broader remedial

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

43

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

scheme that authorized punitive damages, did not have
the intentional and willful requirement, had a
negligence standard, and a more measured version.
            The Government's construction of this Act
throws that compromise out the window and rewrites the
Act as a one-sided in the Government's favor when what
clearly happened in the legislature was a balance was
struck.
            Another thing about the legislative history,
both the House and Senate bills originally had the term
"actual damages" in there from the start, and they both
had "actual damages" simply as a counterpart to punitive
damages.  Again, another confirmation.  Actual damages.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, suppose this were a
common lawsuit for -- for slander per quod, and what was
said was that Mr. Cooper received Social Security
disability benefits.  Now, he would -- and he claims
that causes him great distress because of the extrinsic
fact that he was known to be a pilot, and, therefore,
people who -- who knew that he was flying around an
airplane even though he was so severely disabled that he
was entitled to get Social Security disability
benefits -- that would damage his reputation.
            Now, the damages that you're seeking, the
emotional distress that he allegedly incurred, what

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

44

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

would that be?  Which -- under what category of damages
would that fall?
            MR. CARDOZO:  His -- his economic loss would
be special damages.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And let's --
            MR. CARDOZO:  The damages he could prove --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  You don't claim any economic
loss here.
            MR. CARDOZO:  Right.  The damages he could
prove would be actual damages.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  No.  That -- under the --
would that be the term that a court -- a common law
court would use, actual damages?  Wouldn't they ask
whether the damages to his reputation and the emotional
distress that he suffered therefrom were either --
wouldn't they ask whether that was special or general?
            MR. CARDOZO:  Well, they could also use
actual damages because, of course, in the Gertz case,
the Court --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  No.  Gertz came after the
common law.  Gertz was a modification of the common law.
What would it be at common law?
            MR. CARDOZO:  At common law, it would be
general damages, but --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  General damages here are

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

45

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

excluded by Congress, right?
            MR. CARDOZO:  They were referred for further
study, but what was authorized in the text, the
substantive provision, is actual damages, not special
damages.
            If Congress had wanted to peel off the whole
piece and require only economic loss, the more common
and routine term of art that's used is "special
damages," which circles back to another important point.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But -- but -- but elsewhere
in the statute, it's made very clear that Congress did
not think it was authorizing general damages, right?
Because it set up this commission to recommend whether
general damages should be included.  Now, what would be
-- what would be the purpose of that commission if
indeed actual damages already included general damages?
            MR. CARDOZO:  It doesn't include general
damages.  Recall the presumed damages.  The presumed
damages.  A substantial portion of the compensation
ordinarily available would be peeled off under our
construction.  And this was a distinction that actually
appeared in the Gertz case, where to place First
Amendment limitations on recovery.  The Court
distinguished between actual damages and presumed
damages.  So --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

46

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You would say that actual
emotional damages are not -- are not general damages?
            MR. CARDOZO:  I wouldn't say -- I would say
you could call them general damages.  In the context of
this Act, what Congress does not choose special damages
as the term of what it's authorizing and, instead,
chooses the broader term, "actual damages."
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  No, but it -- it does use
the term "general damages" and makes very clear that it
doesn't think this statute covers general damages.  So,
I think -- I think you have to argue that the term
"general damages" includes only "presumed" emotional
harm and not "proven" emotional harm.
            MR. CARDOZO:  That -- that is exactly our
position.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.
            MR. CARDOZO:  And the thing I would add to
that is general damages -- actual damages was in the
statute long before general damages surfaced.  It
appeared at the eleventh hour, and Congress just said
let's send that off to the commission.  That's important
to keep in mind, because it creates a huge question
about what Congress meant to peel off.  There's no
explanation of general damages.  It isn't defined.  It
arose at the eleventh hour.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

47

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            But the important thing is the term it kept
in the statute was not "special damages," the term of
art that has a pecuniary limitation.  It kept the
broader term "actual damages," and the term it kept
aligns with its statement of purpose, the breadth of the
waiver of sovereign immunity, and the nonpecuniary
expression -- a desire to protect nonpecuniary interests
that's throughout the Act.
            Let me wrap up with a couple of observations
here.  Congress passed this Act to restore the citizens'
faith in their government, and it made a solemn promise
to the American citizens that in cases of intentional
and willful violation, the United States shall be liable
for actual damages.
            Today, the Government is proposing that
"actual damages" be read in a way that renders this Act
virtually irrelevant.  That makes a mockery of that
solemn promise.  To preserve the vitality of this Act,
this Court need only give "actual damages" its most
common and ordinary meaning:  proven, not presumed.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Feigin, you have 5 minutes remaining.
           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC J. FEIGIN
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. FEIGIN:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

48

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            I just have a few points.  First of all,
Respondent would like the Court look -- would like the
Court to look to, quote, "the common and ordinary
meaning" of actual damages, and asserts that the term
"actual damages" fits exactly here.  But no court to
consider this issue has ever thought that the meaning of
"actual damages" was plain.  You have to look at the
context.
            And the context here includes the exclusion
of general damages, which I think Respondent conceded,
when Justice Alito asked him this question, includes --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, you seem to be
arguing throughout that "general damages" meant actual
damages when "general damages," in my understanding,
meant two things:  presumed and actual.  So, why is it
illogical for Congress to look at what "general damages"
meant and pick the meaning that included proven damages,
actual?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor, I think if
you look at the sources cited in our brief, as well as
the sources cited in his brief -- in particular, I'd
refer you to the block quote on page 22 -- "general
damages," that term, most typically refers to a class or
a type of damages that could be presumed but could also
be proven.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

49

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            And when they are proven -- and I think
Respondent effectively conceded this -- they remain
general damages.  And because Congress decided to think
about general damages later, because that would have
been such a great expansion of the waiver of sovereign
immunity, I don't think the Act should be construed to
allow those type of emotional distress damages.
            Now, Respondent would like to --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I -- I'm still confused.
"General damages" meant presumed or actual?  Congress
says we don't want general damages because it includes
presumed.  So, we're going to use the word "actual."
How do you get from that, that Congress meant "only
pecuniary"?  I mean, that has its -- why didn't they
just use that?  Instead of "actual damages," why didn't
they just say "pecuniary damages," if that's what they
intended?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, Your Honor, I think
that's essentially Respondent's argument.  He wants to
fault Congress for not using the specific term "special
damages."  But I think that flips the canon of
interpreting waivers of sovereign immunity on its head
and requires Congress to unambiguously not waive its
sovereign immunity when, in fact, what I think the Court
does is precisely the opposite.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

50

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            I also think, Justice Breyer, addressing the
Privacy Protection Study Commission, the commission
included two of the Congressmen who sponsored the
Privacy Act.  It agreed with our reading, the reading
that we're offering here, of what both "actual damages"
mean and what "general damages" mean.  And -- and not
only did they agree with that, but there's a statement
in the legislative history that adopts our definition,
too, that's discussed in our brief.
            Now, I think what Respondent essentially
wants the Court to do here is to adopt the
recommendation of the Privacy Protection Study
Commission that the Act be expanded to allow both
special and general damages, in which case emotional
distress awards would be allowed.  Now, there may be
some good policy arguments for that, as the Privacy
Protection Study Commission said, but the judicial
restraint that's embodied in the sovereign immunity
canon I think compels the Court not to get out ahead of
Congress on this issue.
            Congress didn't provide emotional distress
awards when it passed the Act in 1974.  It never amended
the Act to include them.  And the Act does not provide
for them.  Thank you.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  At -- wait -- at common

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

51

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

law, if you have a minute.
            Suppose a plaintiff proved that this
particular violation of privacy was so terrible he was
in bed for a week, he couldn't go to his family's
wedding.  I mean, the absolute -- the clearest possible
proof.  Now, would that have been considered general
damages or not?  So, it wasn't presumed.  It wasn't
speculative.  It wasn't anything.  It's absolute -- tied
up.  Definite.
            Would that have been considered general
damages, or -- or would it have been considered special?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Emotional distress, even
physical symptoms of emotional distress, are general
damages.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No matter how well proved.
No matter how clearly proved.
            MR. FEIGIN:  No matter how they're proved,
did you say?
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No matter how clearly they
are proved.
            MR. FEIGIN:  That's correct, Your Honor.
They're general damages.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And -- and I can look -- to
verify that, I look at what definition where?
            MR. FEIGIN:  Well, first of all, Your Honor,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

52

you can look at page 139 of the Dobbs treatise, which is
cited in our brief, which very clearly defines general
damages in that fashion.  Also, if you look at the
Second Restatement, section 621 and 623, they define
general -- they define general damages and emotional
distress damages in this context only by reference to
proven damages.
            Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Counsel.
            The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 12:07 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official
Official

53

A

ability 30:2
able 36:3
above-entitled

1:12 52:13

absolute 51:5,8
Absolutely

41:19

39:5

abstract 7:20,20

access 26:7
accurate 31:24
acknowledge

32:4 39:12,15
act 3:14,16,21

4:8,22 5:4,7,11
6:3,7,9,12,13
6:15,18,21
7:16,25 8:2,11
12:7,10,12,14
12:17 13:4,5
13:10,15,17,22
13:22,23,25
14:2,6,8,17,20
14:22,24 15:9
17:6,13,18
18:1,4,4,14,17
18:24 19:3
20:4,4,5,12,15
21:9,12,23
22:11,12,17,24
23:4 24:4,22
24:24 25:17,22
27:1,12,17
28:21,24 30:17
30:25 31:8,17
35:4,11,19
36:3,11,13
37:25 38:18,20
39:6 41:11,14
42:24,24 43:4
43:6 46:5 47:8
47:10,16,18
49:6 50:4,13
50:22,23,23
actionable 4:9
actions 36:2

actual 6:22 7:1,5
7:6,7,11,14,15
7:18,21,24 8:1
8:17 9:12
10:16,21 11:1
11:2,2,5,6,11
11:16,24 12:10
12:16,21,22
13:18 14:11,15
15:4 17:9
19:10,12 24:20
25:1 27:2,5,22
27:22 28:12,17
28:18,22 29:6
29:7,12 30:8
31:25 32:5,6
32:15 34:2
37:19 38:6,15
39:1,6 40:6,7,8
40:12,15 41:1
41:21 42:11,13
43:11,12,13
44:10,13,18
45:4,16,24
46:1,7,18 47:4
47:14,16,19
48:4,5,7,13,15
48:18 49:10,12
49:15 50:5
Act's 24:25
add 31:3 40:2,11

46:17

additional 10:24
addressing 50:1
adequately

20:17

Administration

1:3 3:4 4:8
20:11

Administrative

22:24

admitted 36:12
adopt 19:22

50:11

adopted 17:24
adopts 50:8
adverse 8:7,11

8:13,16

affirm 25:8,15
agencies 3:21,22

3:25 20:18
agency 3:20
34:10,10,24
37:10

ago 40:16
agree 27:12
30:24 50:7
agreed 50:4
agrees 11:21

12:2

ahead 50:19
airplane 43:21
AL 1:4
align 37:21
aligns 33:5,6
38:18 47:5
Alito 25:6,25
27:12,19,24
28:3,7,16 29:4
29:10 43:14
44:5,7,11,20
44:25 48:11

allege 7:13

25:25

allegedly 43:25
allow 3:12 13:1
27:13,17 28:14
29:18 49:7
50:13

allowed 50:15
allowing 14:3,4
altogether 26:22
ambiguity 13:18

19:10 31:4
32:14 39:4

ambiguous 7:8

11:4 38:23
39:9

ambiguously

20:2 23:1

amended 50:22
Amendment

45:23

amendments

18:22

American 47:12
amount 10:12
analogized

35:22

analogous 34:2
analogue 14:7

20:24

analysis 32:13
answer 42:19,21
anxious 4:21
anybody 10:9

25:12

Apart 30:11
appeals 13:12

23:17,21

appear 38:10
APPEARAN...

appeared 45:22

appears 25:2

appendix 21:24

1:15

46:20

27:6

32:19

applies 25:22
arena 27:8

29:25

argue 46:11
argued 9:3
arguing 15:11

48:13

argument 1:13
2:2,5,8 3:3,7
24:16 26:24
30:6 38:21
39:2 41:9,15
47:23 49:19
arguments 9:7
18:12 50:16
arises 25:16
arose 46:25
arrived 32:15
art 17:5 27:7

45:8 47:3
Article 8:14
asked 7:18

asking 9:6 30:13

48:11

41:25

asserts 48:4
assign 18:15
assigned 6:13

12:13

Assistant 1:16
assume 22:25

assumed 9:25

42:12

10:2

assuming 42:15
assumption 9:7
attend 4:24
authorized
20:11 33:4
43:1 45:3
authorizing
45:12 46:6
available 4:2
21:13 45:20
average 10:13
Aviation 1:3 3:4
avoid 38:22
award 6:8,10
10:2,13,23
15:19,19 17:20
18:7

awarded 9:1

13:25

awards 5:9

12:22 14:18
17:1 20:3
36:25 37:4
50:15,22

aware 17:22
33:20 36:24
37:1

a.m 1:14 3:2

B

back 41:20 45:9
background

42:8,22

balance 24:13

43:7

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

Official

54

class 48:23
classified 10:25

24:5

clear 8:15 11:17

12:24 19:16
32:6,8,11,17
32:18 41:18,25
45:11 46:9
clearest 51:5
clearly 3:15
21:24 43:7
51:16,19 52:2

client 25:7
codification

21:25

codifying 8:14
collect 3:23
collection 3:19
come 29:23

36:11

comes 34:15
coming 18:19

36:17

commission
6:14,17,21
12:13 18:15,19
18:22,23 19:2
19:5,8,12,16
30:7,15,25
31:1,4 32:3
45:13,15 46:21
50:2,2,13,17

committed

26:10

common 3:17

bank 37:12
bar 23:6
based 21:9

36:25
bed 51:4
Beginning 27:4
behalf 2:4,7,10

3:8 24:17
47:24

believe 8:11

23:24

believed 4:7
benefits 20:16

43:17,23

beyond 3:17

34:12

big 9:10 41:14
bill 8:24
bills 43:10
Birdsall 40:15
bit 8:19 31:3

33:19

Black's 25:3
27:6 31:24
32:2 40:14
block 48:22
borrow 17:4
breadth 37:23

47:5

Breyer 30:5,13
30:21,23 31:14
31:19 33:8,18
33:25 34:6
50:1,25 51:15
51:19,23

brief 8:20,21,23
9:6,20 11:5,23
11:24 16:7,9
19:13 48:20,21
50:9 52:2

briefing 32:1
briefs 14:13
bring 20:14
broad 20:4 42:4
broader 5:11

17:9 22:6
36:12 42:25

46:7 47:4

brought 36:2

38:9

business 5:18

C
C 2:1 3:1
California 1:19
call 35:6 46:4
called 37:10,17
canon 19:20
49:21 50:19
Cardozo 1:19
2:6 24:15,16
24:18 25:15
26:11 27:15,21
28:2,6,9,20
29:9,11,16,21
29:25 30:11,14
30:22 31:2,16
31:20 32:12
33:18 34:4,18
35:9 36:5,17
36:22 37:1,5,8
39:3,22,24
41:19 44:3,6,9
44:17,23 45:2
45:17 46:3,14
46:17

carry 24:25
carved 30:2
carves 13:23
case 3:4 4:9 7:11

13:5,13 20:7
21:2,5,7 25:8
26:18,20 28:10
29:14 36:17
37:1,9 40:15
42:7 44:18
45:22 50:14
52:11,12
cases 10:4,5

11:4,9,15,15
14:4 21:11
23:23 27:25
28:4 31:12
34:19 38:9

47:12

category 21:11

27:11 33:3
34:19 38:1,7,9
44:1

causation 25:16
cause 26:16
caused 33:15
causes 4:25

43:18

cautious 18:3
caveat 13:14
CAWTHON 1:7
certain 14:4

certainly 20:23

40:10

41:10

Chao 36:9
characterizati...

39:2

Chief 3:3,9

24:14,18 41:9
47:21,25 52:9

chilling 31:10
choose 46:5
chooses 25:23

46:7

chunk 41:14
circles 41:20

45:9

Circuit 25:8

36:7,16,16,18
36:18 37:9
circuits 36:9
cite 11:4
cited 48:20,21

52:2

citizens 47:10,12
civil 17:13
claim 12:4 20:22

21:1,8 26:21
44:7

claiming 25:9,11
claims 3:13
12:25 13:1
21:9 43:17
clarify 39:25

Alderson Reporting Company

4:10 5:5,7,8,12
5:16 6:1 8:25
9:12,21,25
10:4 11:15
14:15 15:17,19
16:4,9 17:15
17:17 18:6
19:15 20:24
21:10,25 22:6
22:8 24:24
25:2 27:5,10
27:14,16 30:1

31:12 34:12
35:23 37:17
42:8,13,16,22
43:15 44:12,21
44:21,22,23
45:7 47:20
48:3 50:25
community

37:16

comparable

4:17 5:5

compels 3:22

50:19

compensable

5:9 18:6 34:17

compensated

15:9

compensation

6:20 41:7
45:19

complaining

7:19

component
15:11,13

compromise
42:25 43:5

conceded 48:10

49:2

concerned 41:12
concerns 18:9
concession

38:22

concluded 20:8

20:13

conclusion

13:13 30:19
32:15

concrete 17:20

22:14

conduct 4:24
18:5 23:7,13

confer 8:12
confirmation

43:13

conflicts 33:2
confronted 26:2

26:9

Official

55

confused 8:20

49:9

confusing 9:16
Congress 3:11
4:3,12,22 5:15
5:20 6:7,9
12:12 14:19,23
17:3,17,22,23
18:2,8 19:3
20:2,21 21:16
21:17 22:25
23:11 24:21
27:9 28:12,23
31:5,13,16
32:20 35:18
37:24 41:23
42:7,9,11 45:1
45:6,11 46:5
46:20,23 47:10
48:16 49:3,10
49:13,20,23
50:20,21

Congressmen

50:3

42:8

Congress's 33:4

conjectural
29:18,23

consider 48:6
considered

32:10 51:6,10
51:11

constitute 22:12
constituted

21:11

constitutes

constitutional

34:25

31:10

construction
30:19 33:6
35:17 36:13
37:22 38:1
39:9 42:22
43:4 45:21

construe 19:21
construed 49:6

contained 35:4
contains 22:15
contents 22:17
context 7:25 8:1

12:21 13:3
14:21 15:23
17:4 32:16,17
32:18 39:6
42:11 46:4
48:8,9 52:6
contexts 8:2
39:7 40:10

contract 40:24
contrary 32:4

42:16,18

control 13:20
conviction 22:16

25:11

Cooper 1:7 3:5

25:21 26:1
43:16

Cooper's 33:5

37:22
core 6:6
correct 9:21

15:21 28:5,6
51:21

costs 4:20
counsel 24:14
47:21 48:12
52:9,10

counterpart

43:12

couple 47:9
course 27:5 34:7

39:14 44:18
court 1:1,13

3:10 4:7 8:12
9:23 14:14
17:11,21 19:22
19:25 20:8
22:19 24:19
25:1 26:4 38:4
38:11 40:2,10
40:14,23 44:12
44:13,19 45:23
47:19 48:2,3,5

49:24 50:11,19

courts 13:12

19:21 23:17,21
23:21 24:3
29:17,17,20
court's 24:12

40:22

covered 35:11
covering 35:10
covers 21:6 35:7

46:10

crafting 17:18
creates 33:6

46:22

credit 12:17

13:4,9,15,17
13:22,25 14:2
14:5,22 33:19
criminal 22:16

25:10 26:9
37:17

critical 32:12
crystal 32:17
cut 31:18
cuts 41:12
D
D 3:1 8:10
damage 9:17

11:6 15:4
36:25 43:23

damages 4:5,15
4:24 5:14,14
5:23 6:2,16,22
6:23 7:7,16 8:1
8:4,17,22,23
9:1,2,4,11,20
9:21,22,23
10:1,3,8,25
11:1,2,6,11,16
11:21,24 12:1
12:1,2,5,6,9,10
12:11,15,17,21
12:23 13:7,18
13:24,24 14:4
14:5,11,15
15:16,18,21,23

16:1,10,11,11
16:12,14,15,16
16:18,18,25
17:1,5,9,10,20
19:2,4,11,12
19:14 20:6,23
21:14 23:4,15
23:16 24:21
25:1,4,7,9,10
25:12,17 27:2
27:3,5,8,11,14
27:16,19,24
28:4,4,5,8,11
28:13,15,17,18
28:19 29:6,7,8
29:8,12,12,19
29:24 30:1,8
31:25 32:5,7
32:16,22 33:1
33:2,3,14 34:2
36:10 37:19
38:6,8,15,24
39:1,6,19 40:4
40:6,12,15,17
41:1,3,12,14
42:3,11,13
43:1,11,12,13
43:13,24 44:1
44:4,6,9,10,13
44:14,18,24,25
45:4,5,9,12,14
45:16,16,18,18
45:19,24,25
46:2,2,4,5,7,9
46:10,12,18,18
46:19,24 47:2
47:4,14,16,19
48:4,5,7,10,13
48:14,14,16,17
48:23,24 49:3
49:4,7,10,11
49:15,16,21
50:5,6,14 51:7
51:11,14,22
52:3,5,6,7

deal 18:5 23:22
decide 18:23

decided 6:11
18:13 20:2
23:1 49:3

deconstruction

41:3

defamation 16:5

16:9 17:4,14
17:16,22 19:15
27:25 28:4
defer 18:14
define 37:3 52:4

52:5

defined 17:4
31:25 46:24
defines 31:24

52:2

Definite 51:9
definition 9:25

11:21,24 12:10
15:16,21 16:24
28:17,18 39:1
40:8,14,14
50:8 51:24
definitions
31:23 32:1
40:13

degree 23:2 26:5
deliberately

demonstrated

demonstrates

21:5

14:13

6:9

deny 39:21
depart 42:10
departed 42:15
Department

1:17

depend 19:4
derived 8:24
describe 7:3

12:19

described 5:6

8:13,21 28:25
35:19

deserve 18:11
desire 47:7

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

56

embarrassment

essentially 49:19

40:18

detailed 3:18
21:21 35:3
details 35:13
determination

26:19

determine 6:18

6:18 10:18

determines 38:4

38:12

dictionary 25:3
27:6 31:23,24
difference 9:10

15:25

different 9:5
10:16 28:11
34:15 35:8
39:7,7,11
differently

16:21

difficulty 7:23
dignitary 6:19

6:25 13:7
16:19

direction 42:17

42:18

directly 33:2
disability 20:16

43:17,22

disabled 43:21
disagree 5:3
disagreeing

16:23

disallows 33:21
disclose 20:17
disclosed 22:18

24:7

disclosure 20:9
22:9,11 24:8

disclosure-rel...

5:10 22:6

discussed 50:9
discussion 26:25
disharmony
33:6 37:22
dispute 15:22
disregard 26:7
dissemination

3:20

distinction

13:21 45:21
distinguished

45:24

distress 3:13

4:11,18 5:1,9
6:8,10,20 7:5,9
9:13,14 10:6
10:19,24 11:3
12:8,22,25
13:8 14:18,22
15:8,11,12,14
15:18 16:18
17:1 18:7,11
20:3,23 21:14
21:18 23:3
25:19 26:1,5,8
26:13,15,21,23
33:23 34:17
35:5,24 36:23
37:13,16 42:14
43:18,25 44:15
49:7 50:15,21
51:12,13 52:6
distressed 4:20
district 4:7 20:8

23:21

divides 11:25
Dobbs 52:1
doctrine 39:25
documented

15:2,6

Doe 8:12,21 9:3
9:20,24 17:12
17:22 36:8
Doe's 26:20

doing 34:21,25

29:14

35:21

door 20:3
doubt 42:5
draw 30:19
dual 40:22
D.C 1:9,17
E

e 2:1 3:1,1 24:9
earlier 8:21 32:2
early 36:22
eating 10:17
economic 27:8
27:11 38:8,13
38:19 41:6
44:3,7 45:7

effect 8:7,11,13

8:16 31:10
36:14

effectively 49:2
either 6:2 44:15
eleventh 46:20

embarrasses

46:25

4:25

embarrassing

21:4 25:24
35:13

4:19 5:19

embodied 19:20

Embracing

50:18

24:20

emerged 42:25
emotional 3:13
4:10,17 5:9 6:8
6:10,20 7:4,8
9:13,14 10:6
10:19,24 11:3
11:17 12:8,22
12:25 14:18,22
15:8,11,12,14
16:18,25 18:7
18:11 20:3,23
21:14,17 23:3
25:10,11,18
26:1,13,15,21
26:22 33:23
34:15,16 35:5
35:24 36:23
37:13,15 39:20
42:14 43:25
44:14 46:2,12
46:13 49:7

Alderson Reporting Company

9:23

20:19

20:9

50:14,21 51:12
51:13 52:5
enacted 6:22
19:3 31:17
encompasses

enforcement

enforcement-r...

English 40:13
entirely 30:20
entitled 12:6
15:18 16:14
43:22

equitable 22:24
ERIC 1:16 2:3,9

3:7 47:23

ESQ 1:16,19 2:3

2:6,9

50:10

establish 32:8

34:9 36:4

established 31:7

42:10

estimation 32:7
ET 1:4
Everybody 12:2
evidence 10:5

19:9 30:3
31:11

eviscerates 41:4
exactly 38:17
41:22 46:14
48:5

example 3:21
10:6 22:14
24:6 26:13
35:11

excluded 45:1
exclusion 19:4

48:9

exclusively 11:6
exist 4:15
existed 5:7
existence 36:11

exists 18:21
expand 40:11,23
expanded 6:16

6:19 12:15
50:13

expanding 31:6
expansion 49:5
expansive 4:5
expect 38:10
expenses 15:3,6

15:7,13

explain 11:19
explanation

46:24

explicitly 35:23
expose 4:4 23:3
exposed 20:5

26:10

express 27:10
expressed 40:1

expression 47:7
expressly 38:24
extending 18:3
extent 10:6 12:6

16:23 23:25
extreme 37:13
extrinsic 43:18

F

FAA 25:13 26:6
faced 17:17
fact 5:10 14:17
14:21 20:11
26:2,9,17
43:19 49:24
failed 35:2,2
fair 12:17 13:4,9
13:15,17,21,25
14:2,5,21 39:2
42:12

fairly 32:18
faith 47:11
fall 44:2
false 21:3
falsely 37:11
family 35:14

family's 51:4
far 3:17 33:21
34:12 36:12
42:25

fashion 52:3
fault 41:23

49:20

favor 43:6
Federal 1:3 3:4
3:20 20:12,14
21:8,22 22:1
22:21,23 23:23
29:20 37:10

feel 26:9
Feigin 1:16 2:3
2:9 3:6,7,9 5:2
5:25 7:2,6,12
7:15,22 8:6,10
9:9,18 10:20
10:23 11:14
12:18 13:11
14:12 15:5,12
15:20 16:4,8
16:22 17:7,11
18:25 21:7,19
22:3 23:9
47:22,23,25
48:19 49:18
51:12,17,21,25

fell 28:19
Fifth 36:7,15,18

37:9

figure 17:19
figures 37:4,7
filled 20:15
find 23:22 24:5
26:20 29:13
findings 28:23
first 5:2,25 8:4
19:1,8 21:17
23:11 36:22
45:22 48:1
51:25

fits 41:22 48:5
five 37:6
flexibility 23:22
flips 49:21

flows 38:17
flying 43:20
focus 5:10
follow 35:2

42:10

followed 25:19
following 8:22
footnote 11:22
footnotes 11:4

14:14

forbids 3:21
form 20:22

24:23 31:18
34:3 41:7
forms 20:15
25:4 40:4

four 27:1
Francisco 1:19
friends 35:14
front 35:14
further 6:21
27:17 39:16
45:2

G

g 3:1 8:10 37:25
general 1:17

6:16 8:22,23
8:25 9:4,20,22
9:23 10:1,3,25
11:21 12:1,9
12:11,15 13:24
16:11,17 19:1
19:4 23:15
27:14,19,23,24
28:4,7,17,19
29:6,8 33:21
44:16,24,25
45:12,14,16,17
46:2,4,9,10,12
46:18,19,24
48:10,13,14,16
48:22 49:3,4
49:10,11 50:6
50:14 51:6,10
51:13,22 52:2
52:5,5

Official

57

generally 23:17
General's 8:21
generous 5:16
genuine 32:14

35:6,6

Gertz 9:11

44:18,20,21
45:22

Ginsburg 4:12

5:3,13 6:24 7:3
7:10,13,17 8:3
8:9,18 9:5
12:16 13:6
14:10 18:9,18
20:25 21:15
22:2 23:5
25:20

give 10:8 20:22

22:14 25:1
33:19 34:23
40:12 47:19

given 5:21 33:18
gives 32:1
go 42:20 51:4
goes 34:12
going 5:17,18,22

13:24 22:19
23:2 28:12,13
28:14 37:14
41:17,20 42:12
42:13 49:12
good 14:7 18:2

21:1 36:10
50:16

government 6:4
20:5,14,18,22
21:2,14 22:1
22:15 23:23
24:10 25:23
31:21 33:6
34:11 36:8,12
39:4,13,16
40:21,25 47:11
47:15

Government's

24:20 30:6
35:17 37:25

41:16 43:4,6

great 18:5 23:22

43:18 49:5
gross 23:20
guess 9:15 33:9

H
half 15:19
happen 41:6
happened 26:19

29:14 43:7

happening 24:2
happy 10:7
harm 6:25 9:2,8

10:4,12 11:7
11:17,22 12:3
12:8 13:20
15:8,17,24
16:2,12,17
17:2,25 19:17
24:23 25:5
31:18 34:15
36:4 39:20
40:5 41:8
46:13,13
harms 6:20

11:12,12,18

head 49:22
hear 3:3 26:24
held 13:7,8,9,12
helpful 33:13
high 23:5 37:6
highest 37:8
history 13:3
16:1 18:20
42:24 43:9
50:8

hold 32:21
hole 38:19
Honor 5:25 7:2
7:6,22 9:9,18
10:20 11:14,19
12:18 13:11
14:12 15:5,22
16:4,8,22 17:7
17:11 19:1
21:7,20 22:5

23:10 39:22
48:19 49:18
51:21,25
Honor's 8:6
hope 9:18
hour 46:20,25
house 35:15

43:10

huge 46:22
humiliates 4:25
humiliating
25:24 35:14
humiliation

4:19 5:19 7:5
hundred 40:16

I
idea 38:25
III 8:14
illness 15:2
illogical 48:16
illustrates 20:7

20:7

immunity 3:12

12:23,25 19:22
32:10 37:24
39:15,17,25
40:18,21 41:18
47:6 49:6,22
49:24 50:18
impact 4:23

5:17,21

implication

40:19

implicitly 11:20
important 22:7

45:9 46:21
47:1

impose 3:18
21:21 24:1

imposing 35:19
include 7:8 11:3

12:11,15,21
14:18,18,22
45:17 50:23
included 42:14

45:14,16 48:17

Alderson Reporting Company

50:3

includes 16:25
28:18 46:12
48:9,11 49:11
including 11:22
increased 10:12
incurred 43:25
incursions 35:7
indication 42:9
individual 3:22

3:23,24 4:1
28:25 35:21

individuals

24:21

infliction 4:17
information

3:22,23 4:1,2
20:10,17 21:3
21:4 22:10,12
22:15,19 24:7
24:10 34:10
37:11

initial 6:11
injured 9:8
injuries 17:19

21:18 31:9

injury 4:13 7:1
7:4,4,5,7,11,14
7:18,21,24 8:4
8:5 9:4,11,13
9:15,16 10:16
10:22 11:2
26:14

inquiry 12:20
instances 15:1

18:10

instructed 29:24
intangible 31:9
intended 3:11
17:6 49:17
intends 42:9
intent 40:3
41:21 42:5

intentional 4:5
4:17 23:7,12
23:18,22,25
24:6,8,11

34:20 35:10
38:2,5,11,12
41:5 43:2
47:12

intentionally

interest 6:25

35:2

13:8

47:7

13:19

19:12

49:22

interesting 28:9
interests 31:7

Internet 22:20
interpret 23:18
interpretation

interpreted 6:23

interpreting

introduce 10:5
invasion 4:14

5:5,7,8,12 8:25
10:9 15:1
21:11,25 22:7
22:8 33:11,23
35:1,23

invasions 6:3
irrelevant 47:17
issue 11:13

18:13,14 19:2
48:6 50:20

J

J 1:16 2:3,9 3:7

47:23

Jacobs 37:10
job 26:14,15,15

judge 26:18,20

35:16

29:13

judges 26:12,17
judgments 6:5
judicial 19:20

50:17

juries 10:18

26:17 29:22,24
Justice 1:17 3:3

Official

58

3:9 4:12 5:2,13
6:24 7:3,10,13
7:17 8:3,9,18
8:19 9:5,10
10:15,21 11:8
12:16 13:6
14:9,10,25
15:10,15,25
16:6,20 17:3,8
18:9,9,18
20:25 21:15
22:2 23:5
24:14,18 25:6
25:20,25 27:7
27:12,19,24
28:3,7,16 29:4
29:10,15,17,22
30:5,13,21,23
31:14,19,21
33:8,18,25
34:6,7,22 36:1
36:15,20,24
37:3,6 38:21
39:11,23 41:9
43:14 44:5,7
44:11,20,25
45:10 46:1,8
46:16 47:21,25
48:11,12 49:9
50:1,25 51:15
51:19,23 52:9

justify 17:20
juxtaposition

27:22

K
keep 46:22
keeping 3:21

27:21

KENNEDY

14:9,25 29:15
29:17,22 38:21

kept 47:1,3,4
kind 5:15 13:4
26:11 34:25
35:23

kinds 21:3

knew 31:13,16
34:21 43:20

know 12:9 21:22
33:9,12,12,13
33:17,25,25
34:4,14,23
38:23

knowing 26:6
known 43:19

L

language 37:23

42:4

large 6:4 22:10
launderer 37:12
law 3:17 4:10
5:5,7,8,12,16
6:1 8:25 9:12
9:22,25 10:4
11:15 14:15
15:17,19 16:5
17:15,17 18:6
19:15 20:9,18
20:24 21:9,10
21:25 22:7,8
22:22,23 24:24
25:3 27:6,14
27:16 30:1
31:12,24 34:12
34:21 35:1,7
35:23 36:7
40:14 42:8,13
42:16,22 44:12
44:21,21,22,23
51:1

laws 9:13 33:10

lawsuit 16:9

34:16

43:15

leak 35:12
leaked 37:11
leave 35:15
leaves 41:4
left 28:8,10
legislating 42:7
legislative 13:3

42:24 43:9

50:8

legislature 43:7
let's 7:10 21:1,5

44:5 46:21

liability 18:3,16

23:14 38:23

liable 23:24
32:22 38:6
47:13

lifting 39:5
lightly 4:3
limitation 17:24
23:12,13 24:1
38:10 47:3
limitations

45:23

limited 11:12
12:2 13:19
15:24 16:12
17:1 19:17
lines 32:25
lingo 35:22
liquidated 25:4

little 8:19 31:3

40:4

33:19

long 36:20 46:19
look 10:18 11:22

22:5 24:3
28:23 35:18
37:23 38:17
42:20 48:2,3,7
48:16,20 51:23
51:24 52:1,3

looked 11:8
looking 21:22

22:20

lose 26:14
loss 5:18,18
26:15 27:8
31:9 37:18
38:13 41:7
44:3,8 45:7

losses 16:3
lost 15:3 35:15

M

Alderson Reporting Company

maintenance

3:19

majority 37:14
making 6:14
11:17 26:19
34:24

material 34:8
matter 1:12

51:15,16,17,19
52:13

mean 4:16,24
7:4 8:16 11:6
12:17 13:6,7,9
14:16,19,23
18:20,21 19:11
21:17 24:21
31:15,18 34:11
38:7 39:7
41:13 49:14
50:6,6 51:5

meaning 7:16,24
8:8 13:18 17:9
25:2 27:5
32:15 40:13
47:20 48:4,6
48:17

meaningful

36:14

means 14:11,11
18:20,24 27:2
28:22 32:7
38:15 40:7,7,9
41:24

meant 27:9 41:2
46:23 48:13,15
48:17 49:10,13

measured 43:3
medical 15:3,6
15:13 20:10

meet 23:6
member 37:16
mental 4:25
13:8 15:18
31:15 33:14,23
36:25

mentioned 14:7
mentions 40:22

millions 3:20
mind 46:22
minus 29:8
minute 51:1
minutes 47:22
mission 6:17
mockery 47:17
modest 37:14
modification

44:21

modify 39:3
Molzof 42:7,17
moment 37:9
money 37:12
month 35:15
Morisette/Mol...

Morissette 42:6

multiple 13:11

42:23

42:17

42:4

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
narrow 34:19
narrower 13:19

19:23,23
narrowing

38:14

narrowly 19:22
natural 38:16
naturally 26:8
nature 4:23

11:12,13 26:22
29:3 30:1
necessarily

20:21

need 25:1 39:13

40:11 41:18
42:20 47:19

needs 40:12
negligence 23:8

23:20 43:3
neither 40:24
nervous 4:20

10:17

never 4:9,10

Official

59

40:21 50:22
nevertheless

20:14

new 3:18 20:6
Ninth 25:8
36:16,18

nonpecuniary
9:8 16:3 29:3
47:6,7

Nordic 19:25
normally 30:18
norms 42:10
notable 32:24
notion 31:5 33:3
novel 4:6
November 1:10
number 33:20

O
O 2:1 3:1
obligation 40:22
observations

47:9

obtain 22:18
obvious 30:11
occur 32:22,25

33:2 42:3

odd 17:3
offering 11:25

50:5

official 21:3
Okay 30:21 34:6

36:21 46:16
omission 20:21
once 15:24 16:2

32:7,8

one-sided 43:6
opaque 30:22
open 20:2
Operation 25:14
opinion 30:10

opposed 7:19

31:1

35:6

opposite 49:25
oral 1:12 2:2,5

3:7 24:16

ordinarily 4:24

45:20

ordinary 25:2
40:8,13 47:20
48:3

originally 43:10
ought 6:18
out-of-pocket

4:20 5:18 15:6

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 11:23
11:23 19:17
32:19 48:22
52:1

pages 21:23 31:5

31:6

pain 31:9,14,15
paragraphs

30:16

part 31:11
particular 11:11

33:15 48:21
51:3

particularly

10:10,11 14:7
22:21 42:1

pass 21:16
passed 4:13 6:12

21:19 24:24
47:10 50:22

pays 6:4
peculiar 41:2
pecuniary 4:15
4:24 5:15,18
5:22 6:2,4 11:7
11:12,13 12:3
13:20 15:8,17
15:24 16:2,12
16:17 17:2,25
19:17 36:4
37:18 39:19
40:9 47:3
49:14,16

peel 45:6 46:23
peeled 27:17,20

45:20

peg 38:19
people 41:4

42:12 43:20

percentage 36:2
perfectly 38:16
permission

24:12

permissive 14:3
permitted 16:3
person 4:18 5:17
5:21,23 10:13
10:14,23 21:5
22:11 25:22
personal 22:9

29:1

pervasive 3:18
petition 21:24
Petitioner 26:20

29:14

Petitioners 1:5

1:18 2:4,10 3:8
47:24

phrase 39:6 40:6
physical 51:13
picayune 35:20
pick 48:17
picking 41:23
picky 34:13,13

35:3,3

piece 45:7
pilot 25:14

43:19

place 10:2 21:17

38:17 42:24
45:22

plain 7:24 48:7
plaintiff 7:11
8:15,17 10:5
16:13,15 21:8
21:13 22:8,23
23:6,6 24:6
36:3 38:13
51:2

plaintiffs 18:10

24:3 38:1

plaintiff's 5:24

Alderson Reporting Company

17:19 24:2

plausible 19:25
please 3:10

24:19

pocket 35:16
point 12:19

30:15 36:10
39:12 40:21
41:17,20 45:9
pointed 25:20

27:7

points 18:25
23:9 34:11
37:21,21 42:23
48:1

policy 50:16
portion 45:19
position 12:19
29:11 38:23
46:15

possibilities

41:1

possibility 6:10
possible 51:5
possibly 33:9
post-enactment

30:12

post-legislative

18:20

potentially

22:20

practicable 3:24
practice 23:21

24:3

precise 11:10
precisely 19:13

33:1 40:6
41:11,24 49:25

premise 5:4
prescriptions

35:3

present 30:3
preserve 47:18
president 37:12
press 35:13

37:11

presumably

27:9

presume 10:13
28:14 29:16
30:1,3

presumed 9:1,4
9:11,17,21,24
10:1,8 25:3
27:2,16,16
28:22 33:1
38:16,18 40:4
40:16,17 41:21
41:24 45:18,18
45:24 46:12
47:20 48:15,24
49:10,12 51:7
presuming 9:15
pretty 23:5

37:13

prevented 34:21
pre-existing

3:17

primarily 29:2
primary 24:23

31:18 41:7
prime 4:15
prior 21:12 36:8
privacy 3:13,18
4:8,14 5:4,5,6
5:8,8,11,12 6:3
6:3,7,14,21
7:16,25 8:1,25
10:9 12:12,13
13:5,22,23
14:8,17,20,24
15:1,9 17:6,13
17:18 18:1,4,4
18:14,15,18
19:2,5,7,11,15
20:3,4,12,15
21:10,12,12,25
22:7,8,10,17
23:4 24:4 29:1
30:7,25 31:1,4
31:8,12 32:18
33:11,24 34:13
34:16 35:1,4,7
35:21,24 36:3

41:8,11 42:11
42:14 50:2,4
50:12,16 51:3
private 22:9,13
problem 17:17
17:23 28:16

Procedure

22:24

41:3

produces 26:15
program 25:14
promise 47:11

47:18

proof 9:2,13

10:4,24 25:5
28:13 30:4
36:25 40:5
51:6

proposing 47:15
proposition

prosecution

protect 24:22

31:12

25:19

47:7

protection 3:17

6:14 12:13
18:15 19:2,5,8
19:11,16 21:10
31:8,11 50:2
50:12,17
protections

34:13

protective 24:25
prove 9:14 12:8

16:2,13,15
22:9 23:7 24:9
29:12 44:6,10

proved 15:17

51:2,15,16,17
51:20

proven 9:11

10:19 11:3,22
25:3 27:2
28:22 33:1
38:16,18 40:16

Official

60

produce 37:22

34:10

41:21,24 46:13
47:20 48:17,25
49:1 52:7

provide 6:16,19

23:15 33:14
50:21,23

provided 6:8,22
provides 23:21

providing 6:10
provision 5:11

8:24 17:13
22:6 32:19,21
33:5,16 35:9
42:2 45:4

provisions 24:4
proviso 31:3
proximate 25:16

psychosomatic

26:16

15:2

public 22:10

34:9,24 36:14

publicly 4:2
published 20:12
punitive 14:5
23:16 25:4
40:4 43:1,12
purpose 30:17
32:20,21,25
33:4 42:2
45:15 47:5

purposes 13:13

20:19 24:25
28:24

p.m 52:12
Q

question 4:4 5:4
6:6 7:23 8:5,6
9:5,19 11:1
13:2 14:10
25:7,16 35:8
39:12 46:22
48:11

questioning

13:13

quite 15:20 20:4

34:15

quod 16:5,10
17:14,16,23
43:15

quote 9:1 48:3

48:22

quoting 8:23

R

R 3:1
raised 18:10
range 35:10
ratchet 23:2
RAYMOND

1:19 2:6 24:16

reaching 4:23
read 9:6 40:2,11

47:16

reading 19:19
19:23,24 50:4
50:4

real 40:7
really 11:10
23:1 34:13
41:2,12,13,18

reason 17:15
18:2 19:18
20:20 22:25

reasonable
19:19,24

reasons 14:6
REBUTTAL

2:8 47:23

recall 32:1 37:25

42:6 45:18

receive 10:14,24

19:8

received 43:16
recites 28:23

recklessness

32:20

23:19

recognized 9:23
17:12 18:8,12
24:24 36:23
recommend

Alderson Reporting Company

45:13

recommendat...

6:15 12:14
18:16 50:12

record 22:15,18
recordkeeping

4:6 21:22
records 3:20
22:19 25:13
26:2,7

recover 16:16
16:17 21:13
25:18 29:6,6
38:3

recoverable

29:7,12 35:25
recovered 16:11
recovery 4:11
12:7 16:3,14
18:11 24:2
27:13 29:18
31:8 33:22
45:23

red 11:23,24
reduction 38:8
refer 14:14

48:22

reference 9:12
11:10,17 19:1
52:6

referred 45:2
refers 48:23
regarded 27:14

27:15

Register 20:13
regulates 18:5
reject 26:21

29:13

released 20:18
relief 21:1 22:22

22:24

reluctant 23:15
remain 49:2
remaining 47:22
remand 25:16

26:4

remedial 14:3

17:14 42:25

remedies 17:13

27:25 32:20
42:2

remedy 24:22
26:23 31:6
35:16 41:6

renders 47:16
reply 11:5
report 19:8,16

30:12,16

Reporting 12:17
13:4,10,15,17
13:22,25 14:2
14:6,22

reports 31:7
reputation

10:10 31:10
43:23 44:14
reputational

6:19

require 3:25
23:19 28:13
34:8 42:16
45:7

required 3:14

16:2

requirement
8:13 17:25
18:1 23:18
24:1 43:2

requirements

3:16,19 4:6 5:6
8:14 21:21
35:20

requires 19:21
19:22 24:10
25:17 40:1
49:23

requiring 9:12
reserve 24:13
resist 38:25
respect 39:19,19
respectfully 5:3
Respondent

1:20 2:7 11:20
11:25 12:4

Official

61

20:13 24:17
48:2,10 49:2,8
50:10

Respondent's
20:9 49:19

response 30:6,9
rest 4:21
Restatement

52:4

restore 47:10
restraint 19:20

50:18

result 25:17

26:6 32:23,25
33:2 42:3

resulted 4:10
18:7 25:10
resulting 6:2
reveal 42:5
revealed 37:10
rewrites 43:5
right 5:21 7:20
27:20,21 28:1
28:24 29:1,2,5
29:6 30:9,23
31:16 34:22
44:9 45:1,12
rights 31:7,11

35:21

rise 20:22
ROBERTS 3:3

24:14 41:9
47:21 52:9
roll 42:19,21
round 38:19
routine 20:12

45:8

routinely 26:12

29:22 35:24
rubric 28:19
rule 21:6 32:9
33:22 36:9,19
42:6,8,23

run 30:17 39:8
runaway 36:25

37:3

S
S 2:1 3:1
Safe 25:14
safeguard 3:25
24:10 35:21

San 1:19
save 33:8
saying 9:15
20:25 26:3
30:23 34:16
35:20 41:13

says 38:3 39:14

39:16 42:11
49:11

SCALIA 31:21
34:7,22 36:15
36:20 39:11,23
45:10 46:1,8
46:16

scheme 14:3
17:14 43:1
scope 18:3,16

32:10,11 39:16

second 23:17
39:21 52:4
section 6:13
8:10 28:23
32:19 35:18
52:4

Security 4:8

20:10,16 26:7
43:16,22

see 18:22 31:4

38:10

seek 22:23
seeking 12:5
20:16 25:7
43:24
sell 31:5
Senate 8:24

43:10

send 46:21
sense 9:24 10:1
14:19 17:21
41:2

sensitive 10:11
sentence 11:16

separate 11:18

27:1 40:3

separately 12:12
separation 26:5
serious 17:20

23:2

serving 38:8
set 3:18 21:21

23:5 30:7
45:13

settled 29:1
severe 26:1
severely 43:21
shaming 35:13
show 24:7 36:10
showing 17:25
shows 19:23

32:6

side 37:23 40:20
sides 18:12,13
sifting 26:18
silence 25:23
35:12 42:9
silently 20:2

similarity 17:12

23:1

17:16

simply 8:13,15

21:24 26:6
27:2 28:22
38:15 40:12
43:12

single 22:11

25:22

situation 5:24
26:8 37:14

six 37:4
slander 43:15
sleeping 10:17
slightly 23:19,20

39:3

small 38:1,7
Social 4:7 20:10

20:16 26:7
43:16,22

solemn 47:11,18
Solicitor 1:16

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

62

solved 17:23
solves 17:17
somebody 26:6

26:8

sorry 14:20

15:10

sort 9:7 10:11

17:3 18:7
19:19 26:12

Sotomayor 8:19
9:10 10:15,21
11:8 15:10,15
15:25 16:6,20
17:3,8 18:9
27:7 36:1,24
37:3,6 48:12
49:9

sought 24:22
sources 3:25

48:20,21

sovereign 3:12

12:23,25 19:21
32:9 37:24
39:14,17,25
40:17,21 41:18
47:6 49:5,22
49:24 50:18

special 6:23 12:1
12:2,5 15:3,16
15:21,23 16:1
16:11,12,13,15
16:16,24 17:1
17:5,10 19:14
27:8 28:4,11
34:3 41:3,22
44:4,16 45:4,8
46:5 47:2
49:20 50:14
51:11

specific 10:3

specifically

49:20

13:23

speculative

28:14 29:18,23
51:8

spinning 40:25

spoke 42:2
sponsored 50:3
spreads 21:3
square 38:19
standard 43:3
standing 8:12,14
STANMORE

1:7

start 43:11
state 3:14 9:13
21:9 33:10,21
34:12,16 35:1
35:7

statement 28:24

32:24 33:4
42:1 47:5 50:7

states 1:1,13

3:12 4:4 12:24
13:2,14,16
23:3,14 32:21
32:22 33:10,20
38:5 47:13

statistics 33:17

36:2,5

statute 4:13

11:11 18:19,21
33:7 34:11
39:8 41:4
45:11 46:10,19
47:2

statutes 12:21

13:1 33:10
34:8

statutory 3:15

14:4 21:10
30:18 34:12

step 39:21
sterling 10:10
stomach 10:17
stood 36:12
stop 38:24
struck 43:8
structural 17:12

17:16

study 6:14 12:13
18:15,19,21,23
19:2,5,8,11,16

supposed 17:22

21:4

Alderson Reporting Company

27:18 45:3
50:2,12,17

subcategories

12:1

subject 4:18

13:15,16 30:3
submitted 52:11

52:13

subsection

37:24

substantial 38:8

substantially

substantiate

45:19

38:14

29:13

substantive 3:16

20:5 21:21
45:4

subtract 28:7
suffer 5:24 7:11

7:15,18 8:11
9:8 10:13 41:5

suffered 7:14

8:7,16,17 10:7
10:9,11 25:12
26:1,5 37:18
37:18 38:13
44:15

suffering 31:9

31:15,15 33:15

suffers 26:13
sufficient 8:12
23:13 26:21

sufficiently

17:19

suggesting

37:11

suggests 28:12

41:16

suing 5:17
suit 13:15,16
16:5 20:14
38:3,11

suppose 43:14

51:2

Supreme 1:1,13
Surely 31:13,16
surfaced 46:19
sweep 3:17
sweepingly 42:4
symptoms 15:14

synonymous

51:13

6:23

T

T 2:1,1
take 7:10 21:2,5

taken 4:3 10:2

28:10

42:9

takes 21:23
talking 16:20

25:21,21 32:17
34:7,19 36:13
39:4

task 6:14
technical 24:4

35:20

tell 28:21 29:22

30:5 33:20
36:6

telling 19:9
tells 27:1 37:20
term 7:6,7,24,25

11:4,5 12:22
13:8 14:11,11
14:14,15 15:23
16:25 17:1,5,8
19:10,12,14
27:7,10,20,25
28:11,12 34:1
38:14,22 41:22
41:23 43:10
44:12 45:8
46:6,7,9,11
47:1,2,4,4 48:4
48:23 49:20
terms 7:8 11:2
terrible 51:3
terribly 4:20

tethered 40:5
text 3:15 6:8
12:12 19:3
26:25 28:21
30:17 37:20
38:3,18,20
40:1,3 42:20
45:3

Thank 24:14

31:19 47:21,25
50:24 52:8,9

theoretical
40:25,25
theory 7:20
therefrom 44:15
thereto 34:2
thing 10:11 12:9
21:16 26:12,24
28:9 31:13,17
32:24 34:25
36:6 37:20
40:16 43:9
46:17 47:1
things 10:18
14:16 23:2
28:18,21 30:15
30:18 39:7
42:5 48:15

think 6:8 7:22
7:23 8:1 9:3,5
9:19 11:18,20
12:20,20 13:7
13:14,19 14:5
14:13,24 15:7
15:20,22 16:22
17:15,21 18:8
19:7,9,18,19
20:1,6,20,21
21:22 22:25
23:1,11 29:7
31:23 33:22
37:8 39:21
45:12 46:10,11
46:11 48:10,19
49:1,3,6,18,21
49:24 50:1,10
50:19

Official

63

thinking 21:17
thinks 12:6,7
Third 23:25
thought 6:9
23:12 48:6

three 23:9
threshold 18:1
throws 43:5
tied 25:5 51:8
time 24:13 29:2
29:5 30:8 33:9
36:21

today 25:21

34:18 36:13
47:15

tools 39:8 42:22
tort 4:16 8:25

9:12 21:8
33:10

torts 19:15
tort-like 33:16
trauma 15:2
treat 15:14
treatise 52:1
trigger 32:9
true 21:4 28:20
try 11:19 24:5,8

trying 17:18

turned 25:13

29:4

31:5

26:3

two 11:9,18,25
16:10 18:25
22:7 28:3
30:16 31:4
39:5 48:15
50:3

type 9:20 12:5
13:24 22:22
48:24 49:7
types 11:18
16:10 28:3
41:11

typical 10:18
typically 22:22
22:22 42:16

48:23

U

unambiguous
12:24 39:1,13
39:15,18,20

unambiguously

3:15 49:23

uncapped 3:13

23:3

underlying

30:15

understand
15:16 30:8
32:13,14 41:10
42:13

understanding
16:24 32:4,5
48:14

understood 6:17

6:21 19:14
29:1 30:7,25
United 1:1,13

3:12 4:4 12:24
13:2,14,16
23:3,14 32:22
38:5 47:13

universal 33:22
unmistakably

unsubstantiated

35:22

29:14

unusual 20:1
upstanding

37:16

use 3:19 11:10
11:16 17:5,8
20:12 34:1
35:22 40:10
44:13,17 46:8
49:12,15
uses 7:25
usually 32:16

V

v 1:6 3:4 36:8
various 14:6

24:4

vary 32:16
vast 37:14
verdicts 36:25
verify 51:24
version 6:11,12
8:21 32:2 43:3

victims 38:2
view 24:20
Village 19:25
violated 4:8
violation 21:9
22:12,17,23
24:5,9 25:18
26:10 30:2
33:15 34:9,20
38:5,12 41:8
47:13 51:3
violations 4:5

6:2 22:21
23:23 35:10
38:3 41:5
42:14

virtually 47:17
vitality 47:18

W
wages 15:3
wait 50:25
waive 3:11

37:24 49:23
waived 38:24

39:18

waiver 3:14

12:23,24 39:14
39:17 40:1,17
40:23,24 41:18
47:6 49:5

waivers 19:21

32:9 49:22
wake 21:20
want 15:19

35:12 49:11
wanted 5:20
10:7 21:20
45:6

wants 12:8

49:19 50:11

Washington 1:9

1:17

wasn't 11:10

21:15 26:16,21
41:22 51:7,7,8

Watergate

21:20

way 4:7 8:22
11:20 14:23
19:13 27:10
29:24 30:8
31:25 47:16
ways 20:6 22:7

27:1 41:13
wedding 51:5
Wednesday

1:10

week 51:4
weight 19:7

41:16

went 39:12
weren't 41:25
We'll 3:3
we're 9:14 13:12
16:20 25:20,21
28:12,13,14
34:18 35:19,20
49:12 50:5

we've 13:5 14:13
whistleblower
25:23 35:11
willful 4:5 23:7

23:12,18,23
24:1,6,8,11
34:20 35:10
38:2,5,11,12
41:5 43:2
47:13

window 43:5
winds 24:2
word 30:7 49:12
wording 38:16
words 16:17
17:24 25:1
27:4 34:3 39:5
40:2,11

work 12:20
workup 13:4
worst 21:2
worthy 31:8
wouldn't 16:14

18:5 20:23
23:14 44:13,16
46:3

wrap 47:9
wrong 14:21
29:19 31:1
wrote 31:6
X

x 1:2,8

Y

years 36:8,11,16

40:16

Z

zero 35:16,16

$

$100,000 37:15

1

1 8:10 11:4

14:14
10 24:9
10-1024 1:5 3:4
100,000 37:12
11:07 1:14 3:2
12:07 52:12
139 52:1
1974 6:12 19:3

50:22

2

2 11:5,22 14:14

28:23 35:18

2(b) 32:20
20 11:23
2011 1:10
22 11:23 48:22
24 2:7

3

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

64

3 2:4
30 1:10 21:23

36:8

37 36:11
4

47 2:10

5

530 19:17 31:6

5 47:22
5(c)(2)(B)(iii)

6:13

6

620-page 30:16
621 52:4
623 52:4
66a 32:19
8
80s 36:22

Alderson Reporting Company

