1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official

       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
FIRST AMERICAN FINANCIAL          :
CORPORATION, SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST:
TO THE FIRST AMERICAN CORPORATION,:
ET AL.,                           :  No. 10-708
            Petitioners           :
       v.                         :
DENISE P. EDWARDS.                :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Monday, November 28, 2011

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
AARON M. PANNER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
   Petitioners.
JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
   Respondent.
ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
   General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
   United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
   Respondent.

1

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

                     C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
AARON M. PANNER, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondent                      26
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ.
   On behalf of the United States,
   as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent      48
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
AARON M. PANNER, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     59

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                            (10:03 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-708, First American
Financial Corporation v. Edwards.
            Mr. Panner.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF AARON M. PANNER
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. PANNER:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            Article III requires a private plaintiff to
show injury-in-fact, which means at a minimum that the
alleged illegal conduct made her worse off.  Factual
injury does not automatically follow from violation of a
statutory duty owed to the plaintiff, and Ms. Edwards
has not alleged the type of harm alleged by plaintiffs
in the common law cases that she invokes:  no
misappropriation of her property, no loss of desired
opportunity or benefit, no injury to reputation.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  So, let me just be -- use
an example, a hypothetical based on the next case,
really.  I was thinking Congress passes a law, says you
can't phone people between 7:00 at night and 7:00 in the
morning and try to sell them something.  Okay?  That's
the law.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            MR. PANNER:  Yes, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And anyone who gets such a
phone call gets $500 in damages automatically if they
sue in court if they receive such a call.
            The harm was getting the call.  So, my
grandmother, who is always complaining no one ever calls
her, loved the telephone call.  She loved it.  Best
thing happened to her in a month.  Okay?
            Now, can she sue?
            MR. PANNER:  No, Your Honor.  If she does
not have actual injury, the fact of the statutory
violation would not give rise to standing in that case.
Now, it's -- I think it would be quite unlikely that a
plaintiff would come before the court and say:
Actually, the statutory violation delighted me; I
nevertheless would like my $500.
            But if the injury-in-fact requirement means
anything, it means that a plaintiff who comes before the
court must have a harm in fact.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  So, in other words, if the
FDA bans a substance on the ground that 98 percent of
the people it hurts, and there's some kind of automatic
recovery, $500, anybody who bought the substance because
it wasn't supposed to be sold, and she's one of
the 2 percent that it helped --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            MR. PANNER:  Well, Your Honor, in the case
in which --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- can't sue?
            MR. PANNER:  In the case in which someone is
exposed to a substance that has -- that is illegal, they
might well suffer a harm, and the harm might be the
exposure to the substance.  And the -- the sort of
inquiry that you're looking into, which is even if the
exposure ended up not being harmful, would that be a
case --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, here she was exposed,
or the plaintiff was exposed, to the kind of transaction
that Congress said was harmful as a general matter, just
like the example you gave.
            MR. PANNER:  I don't think so, Your Honor.
And the reason is that in this case, the violation -- as
her complaint makes clear, she paid the only rate for
title insurance available in Ohio.  She does not
complain of the quality of the insurance or the service
she received.  She does not maintain --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Because she can't --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, going back to
Justice Breyer's --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm sorry.
            Justice Ginsburg.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Because she can't prove
it at the early stage.  I mean, the problem that
Congress was concerned about was that you can't tell
until the house is going to be sold in the end how
adequate the title insurance was.  So, Congress is
acting on the potential that these kind of kickbacks can
cause harm.  And this does seem to fit the bill of
restitution, unjust enrichment cases, where the
plaintiff doesn't have to prove any harm; she just gets
back what the defendant should not have received.
            MR. PANNER:  Your Honor, with respect to
unjust enrichment cases, those cases reflect
circumstances where there's a benefit received at the
expense of the plaintiff.  And in -- in the traditional
sorts of cases -- unjust enrichment, of course, is an
invention as a category that's relatively recent.  But
the unjust enrichment cases reflect quasi-contract
circumstances where a benefit was conferred that in
justice should have been compensated; so, the plaintiff
is made worse off in not receiving the benefit -- or the
compensation for the benefit; or a circumstance of
constructive trust where there was property or other
right of the plaintiff that was misappropriated and used
without the permission of the plaintiff; so, an
opportunity or a property was taken away.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            This is not a case like that, and there's no
allegation that there is anything lacking in the
insurance that was issued.  This is a circumstance in
which Congress may believe that a certain practice as a
general matter can tend to bring out -- bring about
bad -- bad outcomes and can therefore make it unlawful.
But the question here is whether this plaintiff has a
harm --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, are you taking
the very broad position that this is an unusual State,
as appears to be in three or four others where the
States mandate that title insurance be at a fixed price?
But in those States in which there is no such mandate,
you seem to be arguing that Congress can't ever presume
damages or injury, that even in those cases, the
plaintiff has to come in and prove that they would have
paid less.
            Is that the position you're taking?
            MR. PANNER:  I -- no, Your Honor.  The type
of injury that is incurred doesn't necessarily have to
be a financial one, and there could be circumstances
where a plaintiff would allege an injury.  And I -- it's
important to --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  No, no.  Please tell me,
in those States in which insurance is not fixed by the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

State --
            MR. PANNER:  Well, if there --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- what does the
plaintiff have to do other than to say I -- they didn't
disclose to me that there was a kickback, and I want the
amount I paid for the service?
            Do they have to show something more?
            MR. PANNER:  If the -- I want to -- I'm not
sure I understand Your Honor's question, but if the
question is there were various rates available and the
plaintiff alleges an overcharge, that they purchased
a -- a policy and there was a cheaper policy available,
and as a result of the violation --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, you are in fact
arguing very broadly that there is no presumption of --
of injury in these cases, that the plaintiff still has
to come in and prove --
            MR. PANNER:  Your Honor --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- that in fact they
would have gotten a cheaper -- a cheaper policy?
            MR. PANNER:  Your Honor, the -- the
plaintiff would have to allege in the complaint and then
eventually show that there was some injury.  It doesn't
have to be a financial injury.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Same thing with nominal

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

damages and statutory damages?  You're -- you're taking
a very broad position now.
            MR. PANNER:  I don't think so, Your Honor,
because, again, the question for purposes of standing,
the question for purposes of the ability of a plaintiff
to come into court, is to show that they have some
injury-in-fact, that there is some harm, some way in
which they were made worse off.  This plaintiff --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's not so
extraordinary.  It's what has to be shown in -- in
Sherman Act cases, right?  Contracts and combinations
in -- in restraint of trade are unlawful; but in order
to recover under the Sherman Act, you have to show not
only that it was unlawful, but that you were harmed by
it.
            MR. PANNER:  That's true.  That's certainly
the norm in all sort of tort -- tort cases.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I was going to ask you,
along that line, are there antitrust cases that -- that
Respondents or the Government could cite in which a
party can go into court alleging that the market has
been distorted, even though that person has no damage?
Anything like that in the antitrust -- what would be
their closest case?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, Your Honor, I'm not

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

sure -- I did not see any of the cases that they cited
involving the trust -- the trust circumstance --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Yes.
            MR. PANNER:  -- where there was that sort of
vague allegation.  The trust cases I think actually are
a good illustration of the type of injury that's
required.  We're talking about trust, not antitrust now.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Right.
            MR. PANNER:  But the trust cases involve a
circumstance, the -- I think that the plaintiff here
kind of gives the game away by, in the -- when talking
about the Michoud case, using the phrase "the plaintiff
may sue."  And, of course, that's not what the case
says.  What the case says is that a -- that a
beneficiary can come into court and say the trust has
violated the duty to me; I want to unwind the
transaction to get the benefit that I would have gotten
had the trustee behaved in the way required.
            So, in those cases involving trustees, for
example, they --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  There's not automatic
disgorgement in those --
            MR. PANNER:  There could be automatic
disgorgement, Your Honor.  But, again, that reflects the
lost value of what was paid for in terms of the -- of

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

the --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, but --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But, Mr. Panner, I
thought --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- let's assume that a
trustee acts on its own interest and sells property, but
let's assume that he gets top dollar for that property,
so that the beneficiary hasn't really been deprived of
anything.  What's the injury to the beneficiary?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, the injury to the
beneficiary in that circumstance, Your Honor, is that
the trustee would have misappropriated an opportunity
that belonged to the beneficiary.  In the cases
that are -- in the ordinary case, then, the beneficiary
has the option to say I'd like to unwind that or get the
benefit that the trustee got, if there was self-dealing.
But in a circumstance where a trustee sells, for
example, a piece of property and the -- and the claim is
one for restitution to try to unwind the transaction
that was done, it's the option of the beneficiary to
say:  You know what, maybe I am wrong, but I think I
would be better off if I could undo that transaction.
            So, it's a very conventional kind of harm
where someone believes that their property was -- was
taken away from them and used in a way to their

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

detriment, and they are therefore seeking relief.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, what more does this
plaintiff have to allege other than, if I had been told
that this was a prearranged, tied product between the
mortgage and the title company but that I had a right to
get an untied product even at the same price, and I
would have exercised that right if I had known?  Would
that be enough?
            MR. PANNER:  That might be enough, Your
Honor.  But that's exactly what she didn't allege --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Would that be enough
in -- in Justice Breyer's example, of someone who says I
received a call at midnight and it bothered me?
            MR. PANNER:  Yes, I think that certainly
would be enough, absolutely.  The point is that this
complaint abstracted away any such particularized claim
for a very particular purpose, which was that in order
to maintain this case as a class action, the basis of
harm could not be anything personal or individual to
this plaintiff.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, you go back to your
position that Congress has no power to give a cause of
action on the basis of a statutory violation in which it
is presuming injury?
            MR. PANNER:  That is correct, Your Honor.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

The -- what Congress cannot do is to confer on a
particular plaintiff an injury that's constitutionally
sufficient under Article III.  I think this Court has
made clear that Congress cannot do that and that the
existence of a statutory right by itself, even the
invasion, the violation of the statutory right does not
create injury for constitutional purposes.  Injury --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, certainly you
couldn't -- you couldn't sue.  But if I paid money that
I would have -- and that I'm entitled to get back, then
I've been injured, because --
            MR. PANNER:  Well, Your Honor, you paid
money -- in this case the plaintiff paid money for a
title insurance policy which she received.  She paid at
-- at the legally required rate, and she makes no
complaint about the policy, nor does she claim that it
would have mattered to her --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Could I ask you to clarify
something?  What could a plaintiff who purchases title
insurance in Ohio allege that would be sufficient to
provide standing?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, certainly if a plaintiff
said that the -- that the manner in which the title
insurance was provided had delayed her closing or that
there were procedures that were --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            JUSTICE ALITO:  No, what could be done --
okay.  Go ahead.
            MR. PANNER:  -- that there was something
about the service that she received as a result of
the -- the referral to a particular title insurer,
again, assuming that this is a violation, which we
don't -- we don't think it is.  But -- but assuming that
it is, that --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  So, you could -- the
plaintiff could allege some kind defective service at
the time when the title insurance was purchased?  There
really is no service provided at that time, is there?
            MR. PANNER:  Actually, most --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  You get -- you get a title
insurance policy and that's it; and you don't know
whether -- you don't know what will happen if there's
some problem alleged with the title at some point down
the road.
            MR. PANNER:  Well, that's really -- the --
the risk of that is really on the title insurer, which
is why the title insurer has no incentive whatsoever to
encourage poor service by a title insurance agent.  The
title --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, that -- that leads
me to this -- I thought -- I never thought of title

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

insurance companies as being fungible, and some were
very, very good about narrowing the exceptions, about
working with the seller of the property, if you
represented the buyer, to get rid of the exceptions.
And so, I'm not sure that it's just a question of a
policy versus no policy.  There's a -- there's a quality
to the -- to the research they do.
            And the next -- and related to that is this:
You -- you put the case as if the price is going to be
the same for the insurance.  (A) I think there's nothing
in -- in the State law that permits the insurance
company to get -- to set a lower rate; and, second,
don't the title companies charge other fees, title
search fees and so forth, other fees in addition to the
price of the insurance?  And those other fees,
arguably -- I know she didn't allege any damage -- but
those other fees arguably are too high because of this
fixed market.
            MR. PANNER:  Well, Your Honor, that --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Now, she didn't allege
that.  I know that.
            MR. PANNER:  She didn't allege it, and I
think that's critical, because the -- the issue is not
whether it's conceivable that an injury could occur from
the violation.  It could.  And what you have indicated

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

about difficulty clearing objections to a title, for
example, if there was a problem that she had with
respect to that and she believed that it was the case,
that would actually be the job of the title agent,
which -- and there's no allegation that she was
improperly referred to the title agent.
            So, there -- the insurer is issuing --
underwriting the policy and bears the residual risk, but
it's the agent that is actually engaged with the -- with
the plaintiff here.  And there, the agent's name here
was Tower City.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Suppose Congress makes a
finding, and this is the finding:  We think that lawyers
or whoever is engaged in these who hire title insurance
companies should hire the best one on the merits, not on
the basis of which one will give them the biggest
kickback.  We think that's so because that will help
keep people secure.  Everyone in such -- who buys a
house will feel more secure knowing that the market
worked there.  We can't prove who feels insecure and who
doesn't.  We think in general they would.  And so, we
give everybody the right to recover $500 if they are
injured where the injury consists of being engaged in a
transaction where the title insurance company was not
chosen on the merits but was chosen in whole or in part

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

on the basis of a kickback.  And they write that right
into the statute.
            So, therefore, there is no doubt that the
plaintiff here suffered the harm that Congress sought to
forbid.  That harm was being engaged in a transaction
where the title insurance company was not chosen on the
merits but partly in terms of a kickback.  Now, what in
the Constitution forbids Congress from doing that?
            MR. PANNER:  The Constitution, Article III,
as this Court has interpreted it, requires that a
plaintiff that comes into court must have suffered an
injury-in-fact.  And Congress cannot create that injury
legislatively.  Otherwise, the Congress can enlist the
courts for regulatory purposes that are unrelated to the
core function of the court as this Court has -- has
articulated it --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. Panner --
            MR. PANNER:  -- which is --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  -- suppose that there were a
contract between Mrs. Edwards and Tower and the contract
had a no-kickback clause, not one that suggested that
Ms. Edwards had to show any kind of injury, greater cost
or lesser service, but just you can't have any
kickbacks.  Can she sue on that contract?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, if it was a negotiated

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

agreement and it was -- it was one where the parties had
given value for that assurance, then that would
represent something that there had been a judgment in
advance by this -- by this particular individual that
there was -- that that was something -- that was a
performance that she was willing to pay for and a
promise that meant something to her.  And so, that would
potentially be a different case.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  And now suppose that
Congress passes a law and says every contract of this
kind has to have such a provision in it.
            MR. PANNER:  Right.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Would she now have standing?
            MR. PANNER:  Most likely not, Your Honor,
and the reason is that it's the difference between a
contract that the parties engage in, where there would
be a -- if there's a negotiated contract, it would be
reasonable for the court to say, well, there's value
attached to the rights that the parties have bargained
for here.  But it's different if Congress is using it as
a mechanism to create injury legislatively, and in that
circumstance, the court would still have to determine
whether there was injury-in-fact that would allow the --
allow the plaintiff to get into court.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Could --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            MR. PANNER:  But it's a different case.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Could Congress decree that
the agent in this case shall be an agent of the
purchaser rather than an agent of the title insurance
company?  As it has done in real estate, I think.  The
real estate broker must be an agent of the seller and
not of the purchaser.  Can it -- can it establish a
trust relationship between the purchaser here and the
person selecting the title insurance company?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, I think that Congress
could potentially create a trust relationship --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And if it did, would the
violation of that trust relationship constitute injury
for -- for Article III purposes?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, it would depend, Your
Honor.  Not -- not per se.  It would depend on whether
there was some way in which that violation caused an
injury-in-fact.  So, for example -- first of all, to the
extent that there was some --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  We don't require
injury-in-fact for most breaches of trust, do we?
            MR. PANNER:  You do, Your Honor.  That is to
say that in the case of any of the examples that the
plaintiff has cited there is an underlying interest, an
antecedent interest, a concrete interest in property or

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

in an economic opportunity, paid-for services of an
agent, and it is that concrete interest which is invaded
by the -- by the alleged violation of the -- of the
responsibility of trust.
            But, of course, here you don't even have
that relationship of trust.  The -- as --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, I understand, but I'm
just saying that that concrete interest can be created
by Congress instead of being created by contract.  What
difference does it make?  If you become a trustee by
contract, you get one result; but if you are a trustee
by government decree so that you must be a trustee,
contract or not?
            MR. PANNER:  No, I --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Somehow the situation
changes?
            MR. PANNER:  I don't -- I don't think the
situation would change.  I guess what I'm saying is that
even -- I don't see any of the common law cases
involving trusts, trustees, as involving recoveries or
suits in the absence of what this Court would certainly
consider to be an injury-in-fact, that is to say some
harm to a concrete interest that exists apart from the
statutory duty or the common law duty.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But, Mr. Panner, in response

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

to Justice Scalia's questions and my questions, you are
suggesting that there's a difference depending on what
the source of the law is.  If the source of the right is
-- is a contract, there's one result.  If the source of
the right is a statute, there's another result.  And I
thought that that was very much -- that is -- that's
very much inconsistent with our case law, and
specifically with Lujan.
            MR. PANNER:  I certainly didn't mean to say
that, Your Honor.  So, let me try to clarify.  The
question was -- there are circumstances in which the
legal relationship is such that there could be -- let me
back up.
            The question is whether there's an
injury-in-fact, that is to say a harm that exists as a
factual matter.  And those interests certainly can be
reflected by the legal duties that are created.  So, for
example, there are legal duties in contract that are
intended to protect the interests of the contracting
parties.  There are legal duties under the law of trust
that are intended to protect the beneficiary.
            But this Court has frequently reflected the
fact that there is the question of the violation, but
then there is separately the question of the injury.
And the point that I'm making -- and it should be the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

same answer with respect to your question and
Justice Scalia's -- is if -- the mere fact of the
violation of a duty does not create injury per se, and
none of the cases reflect that.  And that is the
proposition that plaintiff relies on here, precisely
because of what she alleged and what she is
attempting -- the type of case that she is attempting to
bring.
            She's attempting to bring a case in which
the statutory violation is the injury.  No other injury
is required.  She very straightforwardly says it does
not matter if there's any economic harm, it does not
matter if there's any quality difference, it does not
matter if there is any consequential effect on me at
all.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  I'm not sure that that's the
right understanding of her complaint.  She's saying:  I
don't have to prove those things because there's been a
judgment made that -- that these kinds of practices tend
to decrease service and tend to increase price, and
therefore I don't have to prove those matters.
            And that's the exact same judgment that's
made in the trust cases, for example.
            MR. PANNER:  Again, I don't think that the
trust cases can be fairly read to say that, Your Honor.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

But the key point is that there's a distinction between
what Congress -- the statutory duties that Congress can
impose and the manner in which Congress can choose to
have those enforced -- well --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Suppose she -- suppose
she appended to her complaint an affidavit by a
well-respected economist that says Congress was right;
these kind of arrangements will have an adverse effect
on the people who are purchasing title insurance.  And
goes through all kinds of analyses that show that.
Would that be adequate then?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, at the pleading stage, it
might be, Your Honor.  That is to say that if -- if the
question were whether there was an allegation, certainly
it's possible that there could be a sufficiently
concrete allegation in a complaint that there was that
sort of an impact, but -- and this is critical -- not
only was that not alleged here, but the mere fact that
there's a statutory duty does not reflect that's the
judgment or, you know, the fact that there's been any
sort of systemic effect.
            Congress has broadly prohibited practices
involving kickbacks, and the paradigm case has nothing
to do with a situation in which a title insurance agent
is issuing a title insurance policy for an underwriter.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            Now, it's not to say that Congress can't
pass a broader prohibition and -- you know, and require
that it be enforced.  Well, Congress can pass a broader
prohibition, and then the executive could enforce it.
But what Congress cannot do is to dictate in advance
that a particular practice has caused injury to a
particular plaintiff.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, I'm still
having problems --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Just following up Justice
Ginsburg's hypothetical, suppose the Congress works with
economists and concludes there is a reasonable
probability that if there were no kickbacks, there would
be a more competitive market, there would be lower
prices for some of the escrow fees, some of the
collateral fees in addition to the title insurance, and
the plaintiff then alleges that there is this reasonable
probability that there would be a more efficient market,
resulting in cost savings.  Would that be enough?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, Your Honor, there has to
be a connection between the violation alleged and the
harm that ensues.  And so, a general understanding
that a particular --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, the person alleges:
And I was in this market and I might have -- there's a

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

reasonable probability I could have had a lower price,
according to economic theory.
            MR. PANNER:  Well -- well, again, that
wasn't alleged here.  So, the question with these
particular --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No, I'm assuming it's
alleged.
            MR. PANNER:  I understand that, Your Honor.
And so, the question would be particular to the
allegations that were made.  In a case like this one,
it's in all likelihood a generic allegation that there
had been -- that there was some sort of systemic effect
is -- it would be insufficient.  That would be a
speculative sort of claim of harm, and that would be
really something where if it's a general systemic effect
with no traceability between the violation that's
alleged and any supposed harm to the plaintiff, that
that would be something for the executive.
            Mr. Chief Justice, if I can reserve --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And if the plaintiff went
any further and alleged some harm particular to her,
wouldn't that be even more speculative?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, Your Honor --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Some economic harm
particular to her?  I don't want to take up your

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

rebuttal time, but --
            MR. PANNER:  Thank you, Your Honor.
            I think it would depend.  I mean, certainly
there are all sorts of circumstances where there is
broad systemic harm, but yet the harm to the plaintiff
is very clear, if you think about, for example, about
price fixing.
            If I could reserve the remainder.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Mr. Panner.
            Mr. Lamken.
           ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKEN
               ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
            MR. LAMKEN:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
            For at least 280 years, the law has been
clear that when someone breaches a duty of loyalty owed
to you by taking a kickback or otherwise introducing a
conflict into a transaction, you can sue on the basis of
that alone, without showing a further harm in terms of
economic loss.  The invasion of your right to
conflict-free service was itself a sufficiently concrete
and particularized injury-in-fact, not an abstract and
undifferentiated --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You speak of a duty of

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

loyalty.  There's no duty of loyalty owed here.  It was
just a law that said you cannot get -- and I'm not even
sure it's proper to call it a kickback.  It's a
commission.  These people are agents for the title
insurance company, and they get a commission on -- on
every sale of title insurance that they make.  You can
call it a kickback, I suppose.  I don't know why the
other side does.  But -- but it seems to me a
commission.  There's no duty of loyalty.  Isn't -- isn't
the seller here the agent of the title insurance
company?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Congress could have made them,
the agent, could have -- as you pointed out, could have
made them a full-fledged fiduciary.  Elevating your
interest in having no conflicts whatsoever in the
transaction --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  We have a different -- we
have a different case then.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But they didn't do that,
did they?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Congress actually elevated one
component of that by giving you a right to freedom from
a particular conflict of interest, and that is the
kickbacks that undermine their incentive to serve your

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

best interest, that undermine their incentive to choose
the insurer that provides the best quality and the best
service.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, this is where I have
problems with your argument, because this doesn't seem
to me to be a fiduciary relationship, and I don't see
where the -- where the duty of loyalty comes from.  And
to say that Congress can just impose some attributes of
a fiduciary relationship wherever it wants seems rather
strange.
            Let me give you this example:  I take my car
to an auto dealer to have -- because it's making a
strange sound.  And I say call me up when you figure out
what you think is the problem.  They call me up, and
they say, well, there are certain things wrong with it,
and it's going to cost you $1,000.  And I say, okay,
now, thanks for diagnosing the problem; where should I
have it fixed?  Should I have it fixed at your shop or
should I go to another place and have it fixed?  And
they say, well, have it fixed at our shop.  Now, is
there a breach of a duty of loyalty there?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Well, you might have an
interest in getting an honest opinion.  It's just not
protected in law.  They're allowed to tell you what they
want to tell you because you have no protected interest

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

in their opinion.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  I know.  But we're looking
for whether there's an injury-in-fact.  Put aside the
question of whether there's a breach of the duty in law.
There is allegedly here.  I just don't see where there's
an injury-in-fact, because I know -- I'm an idiot if I
don't realize -- that they have a strong economic
incentive to say come have it fixed at my place.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Well, in fact, Your Honor,
Congress is entitled to elevate your interest in
obtaining honest judgments or conflict-free advice to
legal protection, whether you would be an idiot in
accepting it or expecting it in the first instance.
They can take that relationship and make it confidential
and make it an honest one, even if you hadn't expected
that in the first place.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, the issue isn't
whether they can afford it legal protection.  They
certainly can.  And there can be suits by -- by the
Federal Government or, I think, under this statute even
by State -- State attorneys general.  The issue isn't
whether Congress can achieve that result.  It's whether
they can achieve it by permitting private suits.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Right.  But the common law was
absolutely clear that when someone invaded your right to

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

a conflict-free transaction, invaded your right not to
have kickbacks in your transaction, you didn't have to
prove that there was an economic consequence.  The
invasion of your right not to have conflicts invade that
transaction was sufficient.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Could you tell -- could
you tell me, just with Justice Alito's automobile
hypothetical, just as a matter of agency law -- I'm a
little rusty on this one.  If the auto repair people
phone and say:  And you need two parts and we'll
purchase those parts for you.  And they then purchase
parts from a company that they own.  Under standard
agency law, could the vehicle owner get disgorgement?
            MR. LAMKEN:  If the -- if they are acting --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And he doesn't know --
they haven't been informed --
            MR. LAMKEN:  If that is an agency duty --
and we assume that that's an agent; they're acting as
agent for the person with the broken car -- the answer
is absolutely, without having to show any loss.  And
this Court's case in Magruder v. Drury was that type of
case, where it was absolutely clear that the plaintiff
would not have paid a cent more, the estate would not
have paid a cent more, if that -- they had gone
elsewhere to make the purchase.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  If I take a car to an auto
mechanic, he's not my agent.  He's an independent
contractor doing business.  He's not my agent.
            MR. LAMKEN:  That's exactly why I said --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And it's not an agency
relation here, either.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Congress --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's a customer going to
somebody who is an independent contractor.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Congress imposed one component
of the duty that applies to agents and fiduciaries
across the board, and that is:  Don't take kickbacks
that undermine the incentive to obtain the best deal for
your consumer.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  More than agents and
fiduciaries across the board.  He is neither an agent
nor a fiduciary.  And what's the closest case you have
to a situation where there is neither an agency
relationship nor a trust relationship, and yet this kind
of a right to sue without showing damage exists?  What's
the -- what's your best shot?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Well, the law has a number of
contexts where you don't have to show financial loss.
If somebody defames you, you don't have -- in your
business, you don't have to show that you're financially

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

injured.  That's injury-in-fact in and of itself.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that gets to a
point that I'm having trouble getting my arms around.
It seems to me what your position is, what you want us
to focus on, there are three possible arguments.  One is
that there is injury-in-fact in this case.  I see some
of that argument in your briefs.  Two, that Congress
presumes injury-in-fact.  Injury-in-fact is still
required, but that is presumed.  I read that to be
perhaps what the trust cases say.  Or, three, that
injury-in-fact is not required at all.  Now, which are
you arguing?  One, two or three?
            MR. LAMKEN:  I think our argument is that
the invasion of your statutory right to a conflict-free
service is itself an injury-in-fact --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay, statutory
right.
            MR. LAMKEN:  But it also has --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Can I -- I'm sorry
to interrupt you, and I want to pause on that question.
You said violation of a statute is injury-in-fact.  I
would have thought that would be called injury-in-law.
And when we say, as all our standing cases have, is that
what is required is injury-in-fact, I understand that to
be in contradistinction to injury-in-law.  And when you

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

tell me all that you've got or all that you want to
plead is violation of the statute, that doesn't sound
like injury-in-fact.
            MR. LAMKEN:  It's injury-in-fact in the
following two senses, Judge -- Mr. Chief Justice:
First, all you have to do -- getting a conflict-free
referral is itself substantively more valuable than
getting one laden by conflict.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.  Now, that
goes back to the first proposition.  That's an argument
that there is injury-in-fact here.  So, it seems to me
that -- I don't mean this in a pejorative sense, but it
seems to me that you slide back and forth between one,
two, and three, which makes it hard for us to get a
decision.
            MR. LAMKEN:  I think the answer is, so long
as Congress has entitled you to something of potential
value that isn't being denied to every other member of
the public in an undifferentiated way, that is
sufficient to be injury-in-fact.  Now --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Potential --
potential value.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Potential value.  And it's more
valuable --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Now, we said in the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

Whitmore case, and this is a quote:  "Allegations of
possible future injury do not satisfy the requirements
of Article III."  Potential value sounds to me like
possible future injury.
            MR. LAMKEN:  In this sense, Your Honor:
It's what you received is substantively less valuable.
All you have to do is ask yourself, would I value more
advice from somebody who's playing it straight --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.
            MR. LAMKEN:  -- on a financial side or
someone who is taking kickbacks from --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, that's
injury-in-fact?
            MR. LAMKEN:  That's injury-in-fact --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.
            MR. LAMKEN:  -- and there's another way in
which it's injury-in-fact.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, if you tell me
what this case is about is whether or not you've shown
injury-in-fact, it's not a significant -- significant
case, and your client has to prove that at trial.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Well, she proved that she got
something less valuable.  She got something she was
entitled to --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But I thought -- and

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

maybe it's a unique circumstance in this case, but Ohio
says this is going to cost you the same no matter what
you do.
            MR. LAMKEN:  That's actually quite
incorrect, Your Honor.  Ohio --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.  But then
again, that's an argument about was there or was there
not injury-in-fact.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Well, the injury-in-fact is
getting something that's potentially -- not getting
something to which the law entitles you, which has
potential value to you.  And a conflict-free referral is
much more valuable than one laden by conflicts.
            And there is another thing.  We haven't
disclaimed the notion entirely.  We haven't -- in fact,
we believe it is very likely that -- that quality or
price suffered as a result of these -- of these
conflicts.  But --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  That sounds --
again, to use a word we've said is inadequate to support
standing, that sounds conjectural.
            MR. LAMKEN:  No, it's not.  It's not
conjectural at all.  Congress specifically found that
these are the consequences.  But the --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, no, no.  We're

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

talking about not what Congress found; what the
injury-in-fact is.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Right.  Your Honor --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, you will agree,
won't you, that the idea that it's certainly possible or
whatever your formulation was, that the quality here
wasn't good enough or that the entire quality across the
board might be better, that's conjectural, right?
            MR. LAMKEN:  No.  Well, Your Honor, it's
very hard to prove.  And it was for that exact reason
that --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Now we're in point
-- now we're at level two:  It's hard to prove.  So, is
that your argument, that Congress presumed injury?
            MR. LAMKEN:  No, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.
            MR. LAMKEN:  That's why the common law
elevated the right to conflict-free services from not
being legally protected to legal protection, because it
was so hard to figure out, for the judge --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  What is the -- I think --
this is very interesting and informative to me.  Go back
to the middle category.  As I'm now seeing it, you have
a version of the middle category that the Chief Justice
was asking.  And -- and call it Congress sometimes

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

passes a statute that creates a pariah.  It could be a
substance.  It could be a form of behavior.  It could be
a structure of an industry.
            And then once it does that, it makes that
unlawful.  And now what it's done, it is more unusual
than I ever thought.  It comes up in the loyalty
context, fiduciary, but we're not talking about
fiduciary.  It says it is a harm and you will earn money
if you deal with a pariah, assuming it wasn't your
fault.
            Now, that's where I have ended up with your
answers to the Chief, and now, having put it that way, I
can find loads of examples in my mind where there's a
trustee or fiduciary involved.  I can think of an
example in the qui tam context, but to think of one
right on point is a little hard, though I thought there
must be some.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Justice Breyer, the breach of
contract, in some sense, is precisely that pariah.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  The what?
            MR. LAMKEN:  A breach of contract.  If
somebody breaches a -- a contractual duty owed to me, I
don't have to prove that I suffered economic injury.
The breach of the promise itself gives me a grievance
sufficient to entitle me to sue for nominal damages

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

and statutory damages.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  You mean you can sue in
court even if what you come in and you say, they
breached my contract, and as a result, I made $10,000 I
wouldn't have otherwise made?  And when the judge says
"And what damages do you seek," you say?
            MR. LAMKEN:  I'd like $1 more, Your Honor.
I want nominal damages or if there's --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And you can do that?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Or -- or -- so, if there are
stipulated liquidated damages, you're entitled to those
as well.  That was the common law rule for years --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No liquidated --
            MR. LAMKEN:  -- it's the majority rule
today.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  Okay.
            MR. LAMKEN:  So, that is -- that is
precisely the context.  But if I --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, you would accept
$1 in this case?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Well, Your Honor, we're in --
but I think that is --
            (Laughter.)
            MR. LAMKEN:  We're hoping to do better, Your

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

Honor.  But that actually illustrates --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, no, that --
that gets -- I didn't mean to be facetious, but it gets
to the question of whether or not you have to actually
show injury-in-fact.  Your allegation in this case is
for damages, not just nominal damages but damages.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Your Honor, if the injury is
sufficient to get you in court to get $1 --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is that -- is that right?
I thought --
            MR. LAMKEN:  -- it doesn't evaporate just
because you want to get --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Lamken, you're not
seeking damages.  You're seeking what the statute says
you can get, which is your money back treble?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Exactly, Your Honor.  We're
seeking precisely what the statute entitles to us when
there is the breach of this duty owed to us --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So, it's not that you
have to prove --
            MR. LAMKEN:  -- for our protection.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- any other damages
because the statute has specified what the recovery is.
            MR. LAMKEN:  That's exactly right.  When you
show --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, do you -- I'm
sorry.
            MR. LAMKEN:  -- one injury not two, one
injury-in-fact, a violation of a duty owed to us for our
protection, not an additional injury in the form of
having suffered an economic loss.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Do you want to get
out of this contract?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Pardon?
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Do you want to get
out of this deal?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Your Honor, I don't know
whether or not Ms. Edwards would want to get out of the
deal or not.  But the statute says that she doesn't have
to give up her insurance which protects her home in
order to obtain the benefits of -- that Congress
guaranteed her, which were --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I didn't see -- I
didn't see an allegation for rescission or -- or, you
know -- so, you're perfectly happy as far as we know
from the complaint with this deal; you just want the
extra $500 per class member without showing any
injury-in-fact.
            MR. LAMKEN:  I think this -- I think this
brings me back to the question you were asking me

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

before, which is, indeed, it's -- we think it's like --
that there is -- there are diminution in quality and
paying excessive price, but the law says we don't have
to prove that because the -- because the law has
elevated our right to a conflict-free transaction to be
-- to legally protected status.
            The very reason the common law said -- in
the fiduciary and the trust and all the other
confidential issues in context, said we're not going to
ask about the economics, we're not going to regulate the
economics here, because that's too hard.  What we're
going to do is we're going to protect your right to
receive the best advice possible.  And at that --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, maybe I'm just
looking at this too simply.  You pay -- your client paid
$455 for title insurance, correct?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  She is claiming that she
paid that money on the statutory assumption that the
agent would disclose to her any kickbacks, correct?
            MR. LAMKEN:  It's not a disclosure duty but
on the statutory basis that she was entitled to a
conflict-free referral, that they were not directing her
purchase on the basis of conflict that so undermined --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  She said I didn't

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

receive what I paid for, correct?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Exactly, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I paid money, I lost the
money, I'd have it back because what I've bought was a
conflict-free --
            MR. LAMKEN:  That's exactly right.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- referral, and that's
not what I got.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Like an aggrieved trust
beneficiary, she is seeking to get back something that
belonged to her, $455 that she parted company with in a
conflicted transaction.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You -- you don't
want a conflict-free transaction because you don't want
to get out of this contract.  You're perfectly happy
with the contract.  You want $500.  You don't want a
conflict-free transaction, because even if it was a --
were a conflict-free transaction, the price would be the
same, in Ohio.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Not necessarily so, Your Honor,
because Ohio does not preclude price competition.  You
can file for --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.  Now, there
the answer to my question -- and I don't mean to focus
on a peculiar structure, but there -- your answer was on

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

part one.  You said no, not necessarily.  Here there was
an injury-in-fact; she might have gotten a better deal.
            MR. LAMKEN:  She has been exposed -- it's
impossible to tell whether or not Fidelity would have
been better because of financial soundness or another
company would have been better because it has better
claim handling down the road.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And you don't want to have
to prove that, because if you proved any damage, there
goes your class action --
            MR. LAMKEN:  Absolutely not.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- because you don't have
commonality.
            MR. LAMKEN:  The reason we're not -- we did
not allege it is because the statute doesn't require it,
and for 280 years, when somebody takes a -- takes a
kickback that interferes with your obtaining the best
deal possible, that itself was actionable without
proving any further --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  How does it -- how does it
harm her to get a title insurance policy for the price
of $453 from what you call a kickback-free seller, as
opposed to getting the same title insurance for $453
from a non-kickback-free seller?  Is that an
injury-in-fact?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            MR. LAMKEN:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  The -- the vague notion
of -- of buying it from -- from -- I don't know, a white
knight?  Is that the kind of injury-in-fact that our
cases talk about?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Your Honor --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It seems to me purely -- I
don't know -- philosophical.
            MR. LAMKEN:  It's not philosophical at all
because that exact right, ensuring that she gets her --
her purchase in a kickback-free transaction is for her
benefit.  And when she is denied that right, she has
been denied something of potential value that hasn't
been denied to everybody else in the universe.
            For her protection, she was entitled to have
them -- the very fact of a kickback undermines the
incentive to pursue her best interest.  Like a trust
beneficiary, a home buyer spending her money to insure
title on her home has a concrete and particularized
interest in insuring that those who direct the purchase
are not doing it based on kickbacks, which so
undermine the incentive to seek her best interest.
            It may be very hard to prove in individual
cases that, you know, Fidelity is more financially sound
or another has better claims handling.  But it was

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

precisely for that reason that Congress got out of the
business and the courts got out of the business of
trying to regulate the underlying economics.  They're
not going to regulate price.  They're not going to
regulate quality.  And, instead, we're going to give you
a right to get the referral from somebody who has
expertise and who doesn't have a conflict created by a
conflict -- by a kickback that so undermines their
incentive --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Doubtless Congress wanted
to get out of the business.  But the issue here is
whether Congress can get out of the business, whether it
is the function of courts to provide relief to people
who haven't been injured.  I mean, that's -- that's --
that's the whole issue.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Justice Scalia, the
Constitution, statutes, the common law regularly create
bright-line across-the-board rights to protect
underlying financial or other economic interests, where
the right may sweep more broadly and may apply in cases
where those underlying interests are defected.  But we
don't go look backwards at the purpose of the right,
abstract the right to its purpose and say, well, unless
it's purpose was -- was achieved in this particular
purpose, we're not going to --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            JUSTICE ALITO:  Would there be
injury-in-fact if the plaintiff knew everything that was
relevant to this -- was an economist who had studied the
effect of these things on title insurance price and
quality and, in fact, had -- was aware of every single
transaction that had ever occurred between the title
insurance company and the title agent?  Would there be
injury-in-fact in that situation?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Yes.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Nevertheless said, okay, I
understand this is what I'm getting into, but I'm going
ahead.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Yes.  There's -- there's
injury-in-fact.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  There would be
injury-in-fact?
            MR. LAMKEN:  Yes, because he has been denied
something he is entitled to, which is another expert's
untainted referral which is not affected in any way by
kickbacks, which we know are entirely corrosive in the
interest to pursue his best interest.  He might --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But -- but it's circular
for you to say he's denied something he's entitled to.
The question is whether there's an injury.  The
Constitution requires an injury.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            MR. LAMKEN:  Right.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  For you to say he was
entitled to it and, therefore, it's an injury, that's
just -- that's just circular.  That gives no substance
at all to the -- to the meaning of the term "injury."
            MR. LAMKEN:  Yes, but the -- the invasion of
a statutory right itself can be injury-in-fact so long
as it's sufficiently concrete and -- and particularized.
That you're not just asserting another -- an interest of
the public at large.
            The Court has protected interests as
divorced from property interests as the right to obtain
information from the government through FOIA or FACA.
It can protect your -- your non-property interest in not
being defamed.  All of these things are protected.  Your
rights to performance of your contract.  All of the
these things are protected whether or not there's
further economic harm that results.
            And the no further inquiry rule that's
applied in the trust and fiduciary contracts for years
is just another example where the law elevates your
interest in not having conflict --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Can I ask you, just
to follow up -- you said whether or not there's further
economic harm.  So, you say economic harm is required --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            MR. LAMKEN:  No, I --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- because there
can't be further economic harm if there isn't economic
harm in the first place.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Further, comma, economic harm.
Further harm of the economic sort, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Further harm that
happens to be economic, not further economic harm.
            MR. LAMKEN:  Exactly.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.
            MR. LAMKEN:  There doesn't need to be
further harm, much less further economic harm.
            Thank you, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Mr. Lamken.
            Mr. Yang.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG
    ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
                SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT
            MR. YANG:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            When an individual has a statutory right to
a kickback-free referral in a financial transaction, she
participates in a particular financial transaction in
which her right is violated, and she pays money for the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

service unlawfully referred, she has sustained an
Article III injury-in-fact based on, as this Court has
repeatedly explained its test, an invasion of a legally
protected interest that is --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Suppose -- Mr. Yang, let
me give -- give you a hypothetical.  Suppose, you know,
Congress did this to spare the Attorney General the
necessity of suing to enforce these requirements.
Suppose Congress wants to take the burden off the back
of the Internal Revenue Service.
            So, it says that anybody who buys any
product from a company that has not paid its taxes is
entitled to $500.  Okay?  What that person is entitled
to is a -- a tax-observant seller, given a national
right to a tax-observant seller.  Would every person who
buys from some -- some company that hasn't paid its
taxes have a cause of action?
            MR. YANG:  No.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why not?
            MR. YANG:  This Court has explained, I think
principally in your opinion in Lujan v. Defenders of
Wildlife, that Congress cannot convert an
undifferentiated public interest in enforcement of the
law --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But this is differentiated.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

You have to have bought from one of these companies.
It's not everybody.  Not everybody has bought from these
tax cheats.
            MR. YANG:  I -- I understand.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's only the people who
bought from tax cheats.
            MR. YANG:  There is also a threshold.
Obviously, Congress can't simply narrow the class of --
of plaintiffs to say people with college degrees or
people who were born on a Monday.  There needs to be a
sufficient connection between the --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  A nexus, right?  Your brief
is full of "nexus" --
            MR. YANG:  Well, would you --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's legal jargon for
"connection."
            MR. YANG:  We'll use "connection" here.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Lovely.  Say "connection."
I like it.
            (Laughter.)
            MR. YANG:  We'll say "connection."
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I love it.
            MR. YANG:  But what -- in our view, there
needs to be a reasonable connection between the
proscribed conduct -- here, the paying of taxes -- and

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

the class of persons --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.
            MR. YANG:  -- to which the Congress has
conferred the right, and that has to be such that the
person class is reasonably regarded as victims of the
conduct --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  How much of a connection
is -- is necessary?  Suppose you have a law that
requires all machine parts produced by companies to --
to contain a certain feature, and anyone who buys one
that doesn't contain that feature gets $500.  I purchase
one.  That feature is of no use to me at all.  That
product would be just as good for me for the purposes
for which I am using it had it not had that feature.
            Would that be okay?  Would I have a cause of
action?
            MR. YANG:  It's unclear.  Let me -- let me
try to figure out the hypothetical a little bit further.
If Congress -- for instance, if the machine part was a
safety harness in your car and you purchased a car with
a safety harness but you happen simply, you know, to not
use the safety harness, Congress might well be able to
say -- provide for a protection for all purchasers of
this particular vehicle or any kind of vehicle must --
that those types of vehicles must have that safety

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

equipment in order to protect the consumers who purchase
it.
            And in that instance, Congress could well
provide for a statutory damage provision to protect such
an individual generally.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  So, even though I've
installed my own safety harness, which I always do when
I buy a car, I --
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- I can sue because this
car that they sold me didn't have the safety harness?
            MR. YANG:  That's --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  500 bucks.
            MR. YANG:  That's correct.  And let me --
let me go to some historical analogues to explain why
the focus has to be on the invasion of a legally
protected interest.  You have things like trespass.  At
common law -- and this was well known to the framers.
At common law, if you simply step across a boundary
line, a line defined in law and the rights that are
defined in law that are associated with that line, if
you simply step across this and step back, that is a
trespass.  You could bring an action in court.  You
could have no -- no impact whatsoever except the
invasion of your legal right, and you would get nominal

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

damages.
            And that type -- similarly, if you had a
contract, you could have a breach of the contract.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Justice Scalia has a point,
because, I mean, as I heard him, he was -- he was
reiterating what used to be called a prudential rule of
standing.  It wasn't constitutional, but you looked to
see if the statute is meant to protect this kind of
person against that kind of harm.  All right?  And if
not, there's lack of prudential standing.
            Well, if that's the test, his case would
fall outside it, because the tax law is not meant to
protect the plaintiff there, but this case would fall
within it.
            MR. YANG:  I think it's more than prudential
standing.  It goes to what is an injury-in-fact, which
the Court has, again, repeatedly explained is an
invasion of a legally protected interest that is
sufficiently concrete and particularized.
            Now, we don't think that Congress can,
through the guise of a right, convert a generalized
interest in enforcement of the law into something that
an individual can come in to --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, why do --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What is -- I'm sorry,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

Chief, go ahead.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What -- why do we
always say injury-in-fact then?  You say so long as the
harm is a violation of the law, a legally protected
interest.  Our standing cases always say injury-in-fact
as opposed to injury-in-law.  And yet, you're saying if
you violate the law, you have sufficient injury.
            MR. YANG:  Well, your cases actually say an
injury-in-fact, and then you go on to explain that --
for instance, in Defenders of Wildlife, that that is an
invasion of a legally protected interest.  And I'm not
saying it's any invasion of the law, but when Congress
confers a right --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Because they also go
on to say that it has to be concrete.
            MR. YANG:  Right.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Real and immediate,
not conjectural or hypothetical.
            MR. YANG:  That's right.  It can't be an
abstract type of a thing; it has to be in a specific
factual context that's amenable to judicial -- a
realistic judicial appreciation of the consequences --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So that all of our
cases -- we could have left "in fact" out of all of
them?  None of them come out differently because we

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

insist on injury-in-fact?
            MR. YANG:  Well, I -- I don't know if you
could have left it out.  You could have called it
anything.  It is a legal label that the Court has
applied to --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The difference
between legal harm, though -- I mean, isn't that -- I
guess I'm just repeating myself.  Injury-in-fact -- how
do you understand that to be different than any other
kind of injury?
            MR. YANG:  Well, an injury-in-fact is not
simply a legal injury in the sense of any violation of
the law.  It is an invasion of a legally protected
interest with respect to this particular individual, the
particular plaintiff.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  There are two
elements.  That's the particularized requirement, and I
understand that.  But you're saying there's --
injury-in-fact simply means particularized?
            MR. YANG:  No.  No, no, no, no.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Okay.
            MR. YANG:  It includes several concepts.  An
injury-in-fact is an invasion of a legally protected
interest.  It either has to be actual or imminent, and
it has to be concrete and particularized.  Now, again --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

so, there's several concepts within the umbrella of
injury-in-fact.
            But I'd like to go back to the examples that
we would find, at the time of the framing, of many types
of injuries where you don't have to have anything other
than an invasion of your legally protected right.  For
instance, a right to an agreement.  If there's a breach
that has no impact whatsoever, you would be able to get
in and sue.
            Now, there's a question of the
quantification of damage, but that's separate.  That's
not whether you have an injury-in-fact.  It is how --
the measure of damages, and the measure of damages at
common law would be nominal damages.
            Similarly, an invasion -- a trespass
invasion, or, for instance, if you were a beneficiary of
a trust --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I'm not sure about
trespass.  The object of my owning property is that I
have a right to exclude.  This is what I own.  This is
what the law protects.  This is a -- this is a spatial
area for --
            MR. YANG:  But why does --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- for my -- which is my
own domain.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            MR. YANG:  And why you have that is --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And there -- there is an
injury to that right.  Now --
            MR. YANG:  But if the right's threatened --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- you want to say -- you
want to say that Congress can say that you have a right
to buy a conflict-free title insurance policy.  I'm --
I'm not sure that the two equate.
            MR. YANG:  Well, going back to your
hypothetical, the reason you have that interest, the
reason you have the right to exclude this space, is
solely by operation of the law.  Those concepts that are
attached to property rights were created by common law
courts.  Just as common law courts can create rights,
the invasion of which create interest, so too can a
State legislature or when Congress is acting within its
Article III -- Article I power.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  No, but it's essential to
my -- it's essential to my feeling of security and
dignity and privacy.  Like the Justice Breyer telephone
call hypothetical.
            MR. YANG:  I don't -- I don't think the --
any common law court has inquired whether the invasion
-- the trespass somehow made you insecure or invaded
your privacy --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You can -- the
trespass cases, it seems to me, are different because
you are talking about a property right, and you can sell
a property right.  You can go to somebody and say I have
the right to keep people off of this piece of property.
Do you want to buy it?  Here's how much it's worth.  But
if -- that's only a property right to the extent you can
keep people off of it.
            Here, no one's going to buy this right from
the -- the plaintiff, because everybody's got it anyway.
You don't -- you don't pay her, because she doesn't have
a tangible concrete right.  The trespass case, the
person obviously does, because he can sell it.
            MR. YANG:  Well, anything can be monetized.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, this one --
that's my point.  This cannot be monetized because
everybody's already got it.
            You can answer.
            MR. YANG:  Well --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  It's not really a
question, but you can answer.
            (Laughter.)
            MR. YANG:  Well, it is -- it's kind of a
statement, although you know in this -- this is a
specific financial transaction.  It's a transaction

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

58

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

involving the plaintiff.  She paid money for a service
that she got, and it was unlawfully tainted by a
kickback, and that's the type of thing we think
traditionally could be enforced in court.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Mr. Yang.
            MR. YANG:  Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Panner, you have
4 minutes remaining.
          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF AARON M. PANNER
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. PANNER:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
            It seems to me that there are two positions
that have been articulated before the Court, and both
are inconsistent with the Court's prior decisions.  The
first is --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Not yours and his?
            (Laughter.)
            MR. PANNER:  That of the -- that of the
plaintiff and that of the Government, Your Honor.  I
should have been more particularized.
            (Laughter.)
            MR. PANNER:  The violation of a duty owed to
us, that is what plaintiff claims is the injury here.
The violation of a duty is a violation of a duty; it is
not injury.  And similarly the Government says that what

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

59

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

is required is a sufficient connection to the conduct.
But what is required is not a connection to the conduct;
what is required is an injury-in-fact, a harm to the
plaintiff who is seeking to obtain redress from the
courts.  And that fundamental limitation on the role of
the courts is critical to the liberty of the people who
come before the courts and who are subject to the power
of the courts.
            It is absolutely appropriate for someone who
has been harmed through the violation of a statutory or
common law duty owed to that person to come before the
court seeking redress, but what is not possible is for
the courts to be open to a plaintiff who has not alleged
that the statutory duty -- the statutory violation that
has been alleged has caused any adverse impact.
            Now, of course, there are broadly -- there
are -- there's illegal conduct that may have caused harm
to a broad section of the population.  If somebody
engages in price fixing and then sells those price-fixed
goods, it may be very easy to show that, as a result of
that, many people suffered harm and can come into court
to sue for it.  Similarly, there are non-financial harms
that are the basis for standing in many, many cases:
for example, defamation, harm to reputation,
discrimination where somebody is subject to a -- an

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

60

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

injury of being discriminated against.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What about a -- I'm sorry
to interrupt your -- your concluding remarks, but I am
troubled by the dollar nominal damages for breach of
contract.  What do you say about that?
            MR. PANNER:  Well, Your Honor, in -- in a
circumstance in which there is a bargain for
performance, and it may well be that there is a
recognition that there is value that was assigned to
that performance that may be hard to measure, and
therefore there is a concrete injury that's hard to
measure, and, therefore, nominal damages is awarded.
            Now, it's -- the cases are not uniform on
whether nominal damages are available.  There's -- it's
actually split and that there's -- we are not aware of a
case in this Court that would say that in a circumstance
in which there was a harmless breach, that -- that a
suit for nominal damages would establish Article III
standing.  So, with respect to that, I'm -- I'm not sure
what the correct answer would be.
            Unless the Court has further questions?
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
            The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 11:02 a.m., the case in the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

61

Alderson Reporting Company

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

above-entitled matter was submitted.)

Official

62

Alderson Reporting Company

Official
Official

63

A

AARON 1:18

2:3,13 3:7 59:9

ability 9:5
able 51:22 56:8
above-entitled

1:14 62:1

absence 20:21
absolutely 12:15
29:25 30:20,22
43:11 60:9

abstract 26:23
45:23 54:20

abstracted

12:16

accept 38:20
accepting 29:13
achieve 29:22,23
achieved 45:24
across-the-bo...

45:18

Act 9:11,13
acting 6:6 30:14

30:18 57:16

action 12:18,23

43:10 49:17
51:16 52:23

actionable 43:18
acts 11:6
actual 4:11

addition 15:14

55:24

24:16

additional 40:5
adequate 6:5

advance 18:4

23:11

24:5

adverse 23:8

60:15

advice 29:11
34:8 41:13
affidavit 23:6
afford 29:18
agency 30:8,13
30:17 31:5,18
agent 14:22 16:4

16:6,9 19:3,3,4
19:6 20:2
23:24 27:10,13
30:18,19 31:2
31:3,16 41:20
46:7

agents 27:4
31:11,15

agent's 16:10
aggrieved 42:9
agree 36:4
agreement 18:1

56:7

ahead 14:2
46:12 54:1

AL 1:6
ALITO 13:18

14:1,9,14
25:20,24 28:4
29:2 46:1,10
46:15

Alito's 30:7
allegation 7:2

10:5 16:5
23:14,16 25:11
39:5 40:19
allegations
25:10 34:1

allege 7:22 8:22
12:3,10 13:20
14:10 15:16,20
15:22 43:15
alleged 3:13,16

3:16 14:17
20:3 22:6
23:18 24:21
25:4,7,17,21
60:13,15

allegedly 29:5
alleges 8:11
24:17,24

alleging 9:21
allow 18:23,24
allowed 28:24
amenable 54:21
American 1:3,5

3:4

amicus 1:24
2:11 48:18
amount 8:6
analogues 52:15
analyses 23:10
answer 22:1
30:19 33:16
42:24,25 58:18
58:21 61:20
answers 37:12
antecedent

19:25

ANTHONY

1:22 2:9 48:17

antitrust 9:19

9:23 10:7

anybody 4:23

49:11

anyway 58:10
apart 20:23
APPEARAN...

1:17

appears 7:11
appended 23:6
applied 47:20

55:5

applies 31:11
apply 45:20
appreciation

54:22

appropriate

60:9

area 56:22
arguably 15:16

15:17

arguing 7:14
8:15 32:12

argument 1:15
2:2,5,8,12 3:3
3:7 26:12 28:5
32:7,13 33:10
35:7 36:14
48:17 59:9

arguments 32:5
arms 32:3
arrangements

23:8

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

36:22 39:15
40:25 42:4,10
49:9 52:22
56:3 57:9
backwards

45:22

bad 7:6,6
bans 4:21
bargain 61:7
bargained 18:19
based 3:21
44:21 49:2

basis 12:18,23

16:16 17:1
26:19 41:22,24
60:23

bears 16:8
behalf 2:4,7,10
2:14 3:8 26:13
48:18 59:10
behaved 10:18
behavior 37:2
believe 7:4

believed 16:3
believes 11:24
belonged 11:13

42:11

beneficiary

10:15 11:8,9
11:11,13,14,20
21:21 42:10
44:18 56:16
benefit 3:19

6:13,18,20,21
10:17 11:16
44:12

benefits 40:16
best 4:7 16:15

28:1,2,2 31:13
31:21 41:13
43:17 44:17,22
46:21

better 11:22
36:8 38:25
43:2,5,6,6
44:25

Article 3:11
13:3 17:9
19:14 34:3
49:2 57:17,17
61:18

articulated

17:16 59:13

aside 29:3
asking 36:25

40:25

asserting 47:9
assigned 61:9
Assistant 1:22
associated 52:21
assume 11:5,7

30:18

assuming 14:6,7

25:6 37:9
assumption

41:19

assurance 18:2
attached 18:19

attempting 22:7

35:16

57:13

22:7,9

Attorney 49:7
attorneys 29:21
attributes 28:8
auto 28:12 30:9

31:1

automatic 4:22

10:21,23

automatically

3:14 4:3

automobile 30:7
available 5:18
8:10,12 61:14
awarded 61:12
aware 46:5

a.m 1:16 3:2

61:15

61:25

B

back 5:22 6:10
12:21 13:10
21:13 33:10,13

Official

64

cite 9:20
cited 10:1 19:24
City 16:11
claim 11:18

12:16 13:16
25:14 43:7

claiming 41:18
claims 44:25

clarify 13:18

59:23

21:10

class 12:18

40:22 43:10
50:8 51:1,5
clause 17:21
clear 5:17 13:4
26:6,17 29:25
30:22

clearing 16:1
client 34:21

closest 9:24

41:15

31:17

closing 13:24
collateral 24:16
college 50:9
combinations

9:11

come 4:14 7:16
8:17 9:6 10:15
29:8 38:3
53:23 54:25
60:7,11,21
comes 4:18
17:11 28:7
37:6

comma 48:5
commission

27:4,5,9

common 3:17

biggest 16:16
bill 6:7
bit 51:18
board 31:12,16

36:8

born 50:10
bothered 12:13
bought 4:23

42:4 50:1,2,6
boundary 52:19
breach 28:21

29:4 37:18,21
37:24 39:18
53:3 56:7 61:4
61:17

breached 38:4
breaches 19:21

26:17 37:22

Breyer 3:20 4:2

4:20 5:3,11
16:12 36:21
37:18,20 38:2
38:9,13,16
53:4 57:20
Breyer's 5:23

12:12

brief 50:12
briefs 32:7
bright-line

45:18

bring 7:5,5 22:8

22:9 52:23
brings 40:25
broad 7:10 9:2

26:5 60:18

broader 24:2,3
broadly 8:15
23:22 45:20
60:16

broken 30:19
broker 19:6
bucks 52:13
burden 49:9
business 31:3,25

45:2,2,11,12
buy 52:8 57:7

58:6,9

buyer 15:4

44:18

buying 44:3
buys 16:18

49:11,16 51:10

C
C 2:1 3:1
call 4:3,4,5,7
12:13 27:3,7
28:13,14 36:25
43:22 57:21
called 32:22
53:6 55:3

calls 4:6
car 28:11 30:19
31:1 51:20,20
52:8,11

case 3:4,21 4:12
5:1,4,10,16 7:1
9:24 10:12,13
10:14 11:14
12:18 13:13
15:9 16:3 18:8
19:1,3,23 21:7
22:7,9 23:23
25:10 27:18
30:21,22 31:17
32:6 34:1,19
34:21 35:1
38:21 39:5
53:11,13 58:12
61:16,24,25
cases 3:17 6:8
6:12,12,15,17
7:15 8:16 9:11
9:17,19 10:1,5
10:9,19 11:13
20:19 22:4,23
22:25 32:10,23
44:5,24 45:20
54:5,8,24 58:2
60:23 61:13
category 6:16

36:23,24

cause 6:7 12:22

49:17 51:15

caused 19:17

24:6 60:15,17

cent 30:23,24
certain 7:4

28:15 51:10
certainly 9:16
12:14 13:8,22
20:21 21:9,16
23:14 26:3
29:19 36:5
change 20:18
changes 20:16
charge 15:13
cheaper 8:12,20

8:20

cheats 50:3,6
Chief 3:3,9 5:24
25:19 26:9,14
32:2,16,19
33:5,9,21,25
34:9,12,15,18
34:25 35:6,19
35:25 36:4,12
36:16,24 37:12
38:20 39:2
40:1,7,10,18
42:13,23 47:23
48:2,7,10,14
48:20 53:24
54:1,2,14,17
54:23 55:6,16
55:21 58:1,15
58:20 59:5,7
59:11 61:22

choose 23:3 28:1
chosen 16:25,25

circular 46:22

17:6

47:4

circumstance
6:21 7:3 10:2
10:10 11:11,17
18:22 35:1
61:7,16

circumstances
6:13,18 7:21
21:11 26:4

43:13

companies 15:1

15:13 16:15
50:1 51:9

company 12:5
15:12 16:24
17:6 19:5,9
27:5,11 30:12
42:11 43:6
46:7 49:12,16

compensated

compensation

6:19

6:21

competition

competitive

42:21

24:14

complain 5:19
complaining 4:6
complaint 5:17

8:22 12:16
13:16 22:17
23:6,16 40:21

component

27:23 31:10
conceivable

15:24

concepts 55:22

56:1 57:12

concerned 6:3
concludes 24:12
concluding 61:3
concrete 19:25

20:2,8,23
23:16 26:22
44:19 47:8
53:19 54:15
55:25 58:12
61:11

20:19,24 29:24
36:17 38:12
41:7 45:17
52:18,19 56:14
57:13,14,23
60:11

conduct 3:13
50:25 51:6
60:1,2,17
confer 13:1
conferred 6:18

51:4

commonality

confers 54:13

Alderson Reporting Company

confidential
29:14 41:9
conflict 26:19
27:24 33:8
41:24 45:7,8
47:22

conflicted 42:12
conflicts 27:15
30:4 35:13,18

conflict-free
26:22 29:11
30:1 32:14
33:6 35:12
36:18 41:5,23
42:5,14,17,18
57:7

Congress 3:22
5:13 6:3,5 7:4
7:14 12:22
13:1,4 16:12
17:4,8,12,13
18:10,20 19:2
19:10 20:9
23:2,2,3,7,22
24:1,3,5,11
27:12,22 28:8
29:10,22 31:7
31:10 32:7
33:17 35:23
36:1,14,25
40:16 45:1,10
45:12 49:7,9
49:22 50:8
51:3,19,22
52:3 53:20
54:12 57:6,16

conjectural

35:21,23 36:8
54:18

connection

24:21 50:11,16
50:17,18,21,24
51:7 60:1,2
consequence

30:3

consequences
35:24 54:22

consequential

22:14

consider 20:22
consists 16:23
constitute 19:13
Constitution
17:8,9 45:17
46:25

constitutional

13:7 53:7

constitutionally

constructive

13:2

6:22

consumer 31:14
consumers 52:1
contain 51:10,11
context 37:7,15

38:18 41:9
54:21

contexts 31:23
contract 17:20

17:20,24 18:10
18:16,17 20:9
20:11,13 21:4
21:18 37:19,21
38:4 40:8
42:15,16 47:16
53:3,3 61:5
contracting

contracts 9:11

contractual

contradistinct...

conventional

21:19

31:9

47:20

37:22

32:25

11:23

53:21

core 17:15
Corporation 1:4

1:5 3:5

correct 12:25

Official

65

41:16,20 42:1
52:14 61:20

corrosive 46:20
cost 17:22 24:19

28:16 35:2

counsel 5:22 7:9

24:8 38:19
41:14 61:22,23

course 6:15
10:13 20:5
60:16

court 1:1,15

3:10 4:4,14,19
9:6,21 10:15
13:3 17:10,11
17:15,15 18:18
18:22,24 20:21
21:22 26:15
38:3 39:8
47:11 48:21
49:2,20 52:23
53:17 55:4
57:23 59:4,13
60:12,21 61:16
61:21

courts 17:14

45:2,13 57:14
57:14 60:5,6,7
60:8,13

Court's 30:21

59:14

17:12 18:21
19:11 22:3
45:17 57:14,15

created 20:8,9

21:17 45:7
57:13

creates 37:1
critical 15:23
23:17 60:6

48:18

customer 31:8

D

D 3:1

damage 9:22
15:16 31:20
43:9 52:4
56:11

damages 4:3
7:15 9:1,1
37:25 38:1,6,8
38:11 39:6,6,6
39:14,22 53:1
56:13,13,14
61:4,12,14,18
deal 31:13 37:9

40:11,14,21
43:2,18

dealer 28:12
decision 33:15
decisions 59:14
decrease 22:20
decree 19:2

defamation

20:12

60:24

defamed 47:15
defames 31:24
defected 45:21
defective 14:10
defendant 6:10
Defenders 49:21

54:10

defined 52:20,21
degrees 50:9
delayed 13:24
delighted 4:15
denied 33:18
44:12,13,14
46:17,23

DENISE 1:9
Department

depend 19:15,16

1:23

26:3

depending 21:2
deprived 11:8
desired 3:18
determine 18:22
detriment 12:1
diagnosing

28:17

dictate 24:5
difference 18:15

20:10 21:2
22:13 55:6
different 18:8
18:20 19:1
27:17,18 55:9
58:2

differentiated

49:25

differently

54:25

difficulty 16:1
dignity 57:20
diminution 41:2
direct 44:20
directing 41:23
disclaimed

disclose 8:5

35:15

41:20

disclosure 41:21
discriminated

discrimination

61:1

60:25

disgorgement

10:22,24 30:13
distinction 23:1
distorted 9:22
divorced 47:12
doing 17:8 31:3

44:21

dollar 11:7 61:4
domain 56:25
doubt 17:3
Doubtless 45:10
Drury 30:21
duties 21:17,18

21:20 23:2

duty 3:15 10:16
20:24,24 22:3
23:19 26:17,25
27:1,9 28:7,21
29:4 30:17
31:11 37:22

contractor 31:3

create 13:7

convert 49:22

curiae 1:24 2:11

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

66

39:18 40:4
41:21 59:22,24
59:24 60:11,14
D.C 1:11,18,20

1:23

E
E 2:1 3:1,1
early 6:2
earn 37:8
easy 60:20
economic 20:1
22:12 25:2,24
26:21 29:7
30:3 37:23
40:6 45:19
47:18,25,25
48:3,3,5,6,8,8
48:12

economics 41:10

41:11 45:3

economist 23:7

46:3

economists

24:12

Edwards 1:9 3:5
3:15 17:20,22
40:13

effect 22:14 23:8
23:21 25:12,15
46:4

efficient 24:18
either 31:6

55:24

elements 55:17
elevate 29:10
elevated 27:22

36:18 41:5

elevates 47:21
Elevating 27:14
encourage 14:22
ended 5:9 37:11
enforce 24:4

49:8

enforced 23:4

24:3 59:4

enforcement

49:23 53:22
engage 18:16
engaged 16:9,14

16:23 17:5

engages 60:19
enlist 17:13
enrichment 6:8

6:12,15,17
ensues 24:22
ensuring 44:10
entire 36:7
entirely 35:15

46:20

entitle 37:25
entitled 13:10
29:10 33:17
34:24 38:11
41:22 44:15
46:18,23 47:3
49:13,13

entitles 35:11

39:17

equate 57:8
equipment 52:1
escrow 24:15
ESQ 1:18,20,22

2:3,6,9,13

essential 57:18

establish 19:7

57:19

61:18

estate 19:5,6

30:23
ET 1:6
evaporate 39:11
eventually 8:23
everybody

16:22 44:14
50:2,2

everybody's

58:10,17
exact 22:22

36:10 44:10
exactly 12:10

31:4 39:16,24
42:2,6 48:9
example 3:21

5:14 10:20
11:18 12:12
16:2 19:18
21:18 22:23
26:6 28:11
37:15 47:21
60:24

examples 19:23

37:13 56:3

exceptions 15:2

15:4

excessive 41:3
exclude 56:20

executive 24:4

57:11

25:18

exercised 12:7
existence 13:5
exists 20:23

21:15 31:20
expected 29:15
expecting 29:13
expense 6:14
expertise 45:7
expert's 46:18
explain 52:15

54:9

explained 49:3
49:20 53:17
exposed 5:5,11

5:12 43:3

exposure 5:7,9
extent 19:19

extra 40:22
extraordinary

58:7

9:10

F

FACA 47:13
facetious 39:3
fact 4:11,19 8:14

8:19 21:23
22:2 23:18,20
29:9 35:15
44:16 46:5
54:24

factual 3:13
21:16 54:21

fairly 22:25
fall 53:12,13
far 40:20
fault 37:10
FDA 4:21
feature 51:10,11

51:12,14

Federal 29:20
feel 16:19
feeling 57:19
feels 16:20
fees 15:13,14,14
15:15,17 24:15
24:16

Fidelity 43:4

44:24

fiduciaries
31:11,16

fiduciary 27:14
28:6,9 31:17
37:7,8,14 41:8
47:20

figure 28:13
36:20 51:18

file 42:22
financial 1:3 3:5

7:21 8:24
31:23 34:10
43:5 45:19
48:23,24 58:25

financially

31:25 44:24
find 37:13 56:4
finding 16:13,13
first 1:3,5 3:4,4
19:18 29:13,16
33:6,10 48:4
59:15
fit 6:7
fixed 7:12,25

15:18 28:18,18
28:19,20 29:8

fixing 26:7

60:19

focus 32:5 42:24

52:16

FOIA 47:13
follow 3:14

47:24

following 24:10

33:5

forbid 17:5
forbids 17:8
form 37:2 40:5
formulation

36:6

forth 15:14

33:13

found 35:23

36:1

four 7:11
framers 52:18
framing 56:4
freedom 27:23
frequently

21:22

full 50:13
full-fledged

function 17:15

fundamental

27:14

45:13

60:5

fungible 15:1
further 25:21
26:20 43:19
47:18,19,24
48:3,5,6,7,8,12
48:12 51:18
61:21

future 34:2,4

G

G 3:1
game 10:11
general 1:23

5:13 7:5 16:21
24:22 25:15
29:21 49:7
generalized

53:21

generally 52:5

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

67

generic 25:11
getting 4:5
28:23 32:3
33:6,8 35:10
35:10 43:23
46:11

Ginsburg 5:21
5:25 6:1 23:5
39:9,13,19,22

Ginsburg's

24:11

give 4:12 12:22
16:16,22 28:11
40:15 45:5
49:6,6

given 18:2 49:14
gives 10:11
37:24 47:4
giving 27:23
go 9:21 12:21
14:2 28:19
36:22 45:22
52:15 54:1,9
54:14 56:3
58:4

goes 23:10 33:10

43:10 53:16
going 5:22 6:4

9:18 15:9
28:16 31:8
35:2 41:9,10
41:12,12 45:4
45:4,5,25
46:11 57:9
58:9

good 10:6 15:2

36:7 51:13
goods 60:20
gotten 8:20
10:17 43:2
government
9:20 20:12
29:20 47:13
59:19,25

grandmother

4:6

greater 17:22

grievance 37:24
ground 4:21
guaranteed

40:17

guess 20:18 55:8
guise 53:21

H

handling 43:7

happen 14:16

44:25

51:21

happened 4:8
happens 48:8
happy 40:20

42:15

hard 33:14

36:10,13,20
37:16 41:11
44:23 61:10,11

harm 3:16 4:5
4:19 5:6,6 6:7
6:9 7:8 9:7
11:23 12:19
17:4,5 20:23
21:15 22:12
24:22 25:14,17
25:21,24 26:5
26:5,20 37:8
43:21 47:18,25
47:25 48:3,4,5
48:6,7,8,12,12
53:9 54:4 55:7
60:3,17,21,24

harmed 9:14

60:10

harmful 5:9,13
harmless 61:17
harms 60:22
harness 51:20
51:21,22 52:7
52:11
hear 3:3
heard 53:5
help 16:17
helped 4:25
high 15:17

hire 16:14,15
historical 52:15
home 40:15
44:18,19

honest 28:23

29:11,15

Honor 4:1,10
5:1,15 6:11
7:19 8:18,21
9:3,25 10:24
11:11 12:10,25
13:12 15:19
18:14 19:16,22
21:10 22:25
23:13 24:20
25:8,23 26:2
29:9 34:5 35:5
36:3,9,15 38:7
38:22 39:1,7
39:16 40:12
42:2,20 44:6
48:6,13 59:19
61:6

Honor's 8:9
hoping 38:25
house 6:4 16:19
hurts 4:22
hypothetical
3:21 24:11
30:8 49:6
51:18 54:18
57:10,21
I
idea 36:5
idiot 29:6,12
III 3:11 13:3
17:9 19:14
34:3 49:2
57:17 61:18
illegal 3:13 5:5

60:17

illustrates 39:1
illustration 10:6
immediate

54:17

imminent 55:24

impact 23:17
52:24 56:8
60:15

important 7:23
impose 23:3

28:8

imposed 31:10
impossible 43:4
improperly 16:6
inadequate

35:20

incentive 14:21

27:25 28:1
29:8 31:13
44:17,22 45:9
includes 55:22
inconsistent
21:7 59:14

incorrect 35:5
increase 22:20
incurred 7:20
independent

31:2,9

indicated 15:25
individual 12:19

18:4 44:23
48:22 52:5
53:23 55:14
industry 37:3
information

informative

47:13

36:22

informed 30:16
injured 13:11
16:23 32:1
45:14

injuries 56:5
injury 3:14,19
4:11 7:15,20
7:22 8:16,23
8:24 10:6 11:9
11:10 12:24
13:2,7,7 15:24
16:23 17:12,22
18:21 19:13
21:24 22:3,10

22:10 24:6
34:2,4 36:14
37:23 39:7
40:3,5 46:24
46:25 47:3,5
54:7 55:10,12
57:3 59:23,25
61:1,11

injury-in-fact
3:12 4:17 9:7
17:12 18:23
19:18,21 20:22
21:15 26:23
29:3,6 32:1,6,8
32:8,11,15,21
32:24 33:3,4
33:11,20 34:13
34:14,17,20
35:8,9 36:2
39:5 40:4,23
43:2,25 44:4
46:2,8,14,16
47:7 49:2
53:16 54:3,5,9
55:1,8,11,19
55:23 56:2,12
60:3

injury-in-law
32:22,25 54:6
inquired 57:23
inquiry 5:8

insecure 16:20

47:19

57:24

insist 55:1
installed 52:7
instance 29:13

51:19 52:3
54:10 56:7,16

insufficient

25:13

insurance 5:18

5:19 6:5 7:3,12
7:25 13:14,20
13:24 14:11,15
14:22 15:1,10
15:11,15 16:14

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

68

16:24 17:6
19:4,9 23:9,24
23:25 24:16
27:5,6,10
40:15 41:16
43:21,23 46:4
46:7 57:7
insure 44:18
insurer 14:5,20

14:21 16:7
28:2

insuring 44:20
intended 21:19

21:21

interest 1:4 11:6

19:24,25,25
20:2,8,23
27:15,24 28:1
28:23,25 29:10
44:17,20,22
46:21,21 47:9
47:14,22 49:4
49:23 52:17
53:18,22 54:5
54:11 55:14,24
57:10,15
interesting

36:22

interests 21:16

21:19 45:19,21
47:11,12

interferes 43:17
Internal 49:10
interpreted

interrupt 32:20

17:10

61:3

introducing

26:18

invade 30:4
invaded 20:2
29:25 30:1
57:24

invasion 13:6
26:21 30:4
32:14 47:6
49:3 52:16,25

53:18 54:11,12
55:13,23 56:6
56:15,16 57:15
57:23

invention 6:16
invokes 3:17
involve 10:9
involved 37:14
involving 10:2

10:19 20:20,20
23:23 59:1
issue 15:23

29:17,21 45:11
45:15

issued 7:3
issues 41:9
issuing 16:7

23:25

J

jargon 50:15
JEFFREY 1:20

2:6 26:12

job 16:4
judge 33:5 36:20

38:5

judgment 18:3

22:19,22 23:20

judgments

judicial 54:21

29:11

54:22

justice 1:23 3:3
3:9,20 4:2,20
5:3,11,21,22
5:23,24,25 6:1
6:19 7:9,24 8:3
8:14,19,25 9:9
9:18 10:3,8,21
11:2,3,5 12:2
12:11,12,21
13:8,18 14:1,9
14:14,24 15:20
16:12 17:17,19
18:9,13,25
19:2,12,20
20:7,15,25

21:1 22:2,16
23:5 24:8,10
24:10,24 25:6
25:19,20,24
26:9,14,25
27:17,20 28:4
29:2,17 30:6,7
30:15 31:1,5,8
31:15 32:2,16
32:19 33:5,9
33:21,25 34:9
34:12,15,18,25
35:6,19,25
36:4,12,16,21
36:24 37:18,20
38:2,9,13,16
38:19,20 39:2
39:9,13,19,22
40:1,7,10,18
41:14,18,25
42:3,7,13,23
43:8,12,20
44:2,7 45:10
45:16 46:1,10
46:15,22 47:2
47:23 48:2,7
48:10,14,20
49:5,19,25
50:5,12,15,18
50:22 51:2,7
52:6,10,13
53:4,4,24,25
54:2,14,17,23
55:6,16,21
56:18,24 57:2
57:5,18,20
58:1,15,20
59:5,7,11,16
61:2,22
K

KAGAN 11:3
17:17,19 18:9
18:13 20:25
22:16

keep 16:18 58:5

58:8

KENNEDY

9:18 10:3,8,21
14:24 15:20
24:10,24 25:6
30:6,15 46:22
47:2 56:18,24
57:2,5,18

key 23:1
kickback 8:5
16:17 17:1,7
26:18 27:3,7
43:17 44:16
45:8 59:3

kickbacks 6:6
17:24 23:23
24:13 27:25
30:2 31:12
34:11 41:20
44:21 46:20
kickback-free
43:22 44:11
48:23

kind 4:22 5:12

6:6 10:11
11:23 14:10
17:22 18:11
23:8 31:19
44:4 51:24
53:8,9 55:10
58:23

kinds 22:19

23:10

knew 46:2
knight 44:4
know 11:21

14:15,16 15:16
15:21 23:20
24:2 27:7 29:2
29:6 30:15
40:12,20,20
44:3,8,24
46:20 49:6
51:21 55:2
58:24

knowing 16:19
known 12:7

52:18

L
label 55:4
lack 53:10
lacking 7:2
laden 33:8 35:13
Lamken 1:20
2:6 26:11,12
26:14 27:12,19
27:22 28:22
29:9,24 30:14
30:17 31:4,7
31:10,22 32:13
32:18 33:4,16
33:23 34:5,10
34:14,16,22
35:4,9,22 36:3
36:9,15,17
37:18,21 38:7
38:10,14,17,22
38:25 39:7,11
39:13,16,21,24
40:3,9,12,24
41:17,21 42:2
42:6,9,20 43:3
43:11,14 44:1
44:6,9 45:16
46:9,13,17
47:1,6 48:1,5,9
48:11,15
large 47:10
Laughter 38:24

50:20 52:9
58:22 59:17,21

law 3:17,22,25
15:11 18:10
20:19,24 21:3
21:7,20 26:16
27:2 28:24
29:4,24 30:8
30:13 31:22
35:11 36:17
38:12 41:3,4,7
45:17 47:21
49:24 51:8
52:18,19,20,21
53:12,22 54:4
54:7,12 55:13

Alderson Reporting Company

money 13:9,13

number 31:22

Official

69

nominal 8:25
37:25 38:8
39:6 52:25
56:14 61:4,12
61:14,18

non-financial

60:22

43:24

47:14

non-kickback...

non-property

norm 9:17
notion 35:15

44:2

November 1:12
no-kickback

17:21

O
O 2:1 3:1
object 56:19
objections 16:1
obtain 31:13
40:16 47:12
60:4

obtaining 29:11

obviously 50:8

43:17

58:13

occur 15:24
occurred 46:6
Ohio 5:18 13:20

35:1,5 42:19
42:21

okay 3:24 4:8
14:2 28:16
32:16 33:9
34:9,15 35:6
36:16 38:16
42:23 46:10
48:10 49:13
51:2,15 55:21

once 37:4
one's 58:9
open 60:13
operation 57:12

opinion 28:23
29:1 49:21
opportunity
3:19 6:25
11:12 20:1

opposed 43:23

54:6

option 11:15,20
oral 1:14 2:2,5,8

3:7 26:12
48:17

order 9:12 12:17

40:16 52:1

ordinary 11:14
outcomes 7:6
outside 53:12
overcharge 8:11
owed 3:15 26:17

27:1 37:22
39:18 40:4
59:22 60:11
owner 30:13
owning 56:19

P
P 1:9 3:1
PAGE 2:2
paid 5:17 7:17

8:6 10:25 13:9
13:12,13,14
30:23,24 41:15
41:19 42:1,3
49:12,16 59:1

paid-for 20:1
Panner 1:18 2:3

2:13 3:6,7,9
4:1,10 5:1,4,15
6:11 7:19 8:2,8
8:18,21 9:3,16
9:25 10:4,9,23
11:3,10 12:9
12:14,25 13:12
13:22 14:3,13
14:19 15:19,22
17:9,17,18,25
18:12,14 19:1
19:10,15,22

56:14,21 57:12
57:13,14,23
60:11

lawyers 16:13
leads 14:24
left 54:24 55:3
legal 21:12,17

21:18,20 29:12
29:18 36:19
50:15 52:25
55:4,7,12

legally 13:15
36:19 41:6
49:3 52:16
53:18 54:4,11
55:13,23 56:6

legislatively
17:13 18:21

legislature

57:16

lesser 17:23
let's 11:5,7
level 36:13
liberty 60:6
likelihood 25:11
limitation 60:5
line 9:19 52:20

52:20,21

liquidated 38:11

little 30:9 37:16

38:13

51:18

loads 37:13
long 33:16 47:7

54:3

look 45:22
looked 53:7
looking 5:8 29:2

41:15

loss 3:18 26:21
30:20 31:23
40:6

lost 10:25 42:3
love 50:22
loved 4:7,7
Lovely 50:18
lower 15:12

24:14 25:1
loyalty 26:17

27:1,1,9 28:7
28:21 37:6
Lujan 21:8

49:21

M

M 1:18 2:3,13

3:7 59:9

machine 51:9,19
Magruder 30:21
maintain 5:20

12:18

majority 38:14
making 21:25

28:12

mandate 7:12

manner 13:23

7:13

23:3

market 9:21
15:18 16:19
24:14,18,25

matter 1:14 5:13

7:5 21:16
22:12,13,14
30:8 35:2 62:1
mattered 13:17
matters 22:21
mean 6:2 21:9

26:3 33:12
38:2 39:3
42:24 45:14
53:5 55:7

meaning 47:5
means 3:12 4:17

4:18 55:19

meant 18:7 53:8

53:12

measure 56:13

56:13 61:10,12

mechanic 31:2
mechanism

member 33:18

18:21

40:22

mere 22:2 23:18
merits 16:15,25

17:7

Michoud 10:12
middle 36:23,24
midnight 12:13
mind 37:13
minimum 3:12
minutes 59:8
misappropria...

6:23 11:12

misappropria...

Monday 1:12

monetized 58:14

3:18

50:10

58:16

13:13 37:8
39:15 41:19
42:3,4 44:18
48:25 59:1

month 4:8
morning 3:4,24
mortgage 12:5

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
name 16:10
narrow 50:8
narrowing 15:2
national 49:14
necessarily 7:20

42:20 43:1

necessary 51:8
necessity 49:8
need 30:10

48:11

needs 50:10,24
negotiated

17:25 18:17

neither 31:16,18
never 14:25
nevertheless
4:16 46:10

nexus 50:12,13
night 3:23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

70

59:23 60:4,13
plaintiffs 3:16

presume 7:14
presumed 32:9

20:14,17,25
21:9 22:24
23:12 24:20
25:3,8,23 26:2
26:10 59:7,9
59:11,18,22
61:6

paradigm 23:23
Pardon 40:9
pariah 37:1,9,19
part 16:25 43:1

51:19

parted 42:11
participates

48:24

particular 12:17
13:2 14:5 18:4
24:6,7,23 25:5
25:9,21,25
27:24 45:24
48:24 51:24
55:14,15

particularized
12:16 26:23
44:19 47:8
53:19 55:17,19
55:25 59:20
parties 18:1,16
18:19 21:20

partly 17:7
parts 30:10,11

30:12 51:9

party 9:21
pass 24:2,3
passes 3:22
18:10 37:1
pause 32:20
pay 18:6 41:15

paying 41:3

58:11

50:25

pays 48:25
peculiar 42:25
pejorative 33:12
people 3:23 4:22

16:18 23:9
27:4 30:9

45:13 50:5,9
50:10 58:5,8
60:6,21

percent 4:21,25
perfectly 40:20

42:15

performance
18:6 47:16
61:8,10

permission 6:24
permits 15:11
permitting

29:23

person 9:22 19:9

24:24 30:19
49:13,15 51:5
53:9 58:13
60:11

personal 12:19
persons 51:1
Petitioners 1:7

1:19 2:4,14 3:8
59:10

philosophical

phone 3:23 4:3

44:8,9

30:10

phrase 10:12
piece 11:18 58:5
place 28:19 29:8

29:16 48:4

plaintiff 3:11,15

4:14,18 5:12
6:9,14,19,23
6:24 7:7,16,22
8:4,11,16,22
9:5,8 10:10,12
12:3,20 13:2
13:13,19,22
14:10 16:10
17:4,11 18:24
19:24 22:5
24:7,17 25:17
25:20 26:5
30:22 46:2
53:13 55:15
58:10 59:1,19

50:9

playing 34:8
plead 33:2
pleading 23:12
please 3:10 7:24

26:15 48:21

point 12:15

14:17 21:25
23:1 32:3
36:12 37:16
53:4 58:16
pointed 27:13
policy 8:12,12
8:20 13:14,16
14:15 15:6,6
16:8 23:25
43:21 57:7
poor 14:22
population

60:18

position 7:10,18
9:2 12:22 32:4
positions 59:12
possible 23:15
32:5 34:2,4
36:5 41:13
43:18 60:12
potential 6:6

33:17,21,22,23
34:3 35:12
44:13

potentially 18:8

19:11 35:10
power 12:22
57:17 60:7
practice 7:4

24:6

23:22

12:4

36:14

presumes 32:8
presuming

presumption

12:24

8:15

price 7:12 12:6
15:9,15 22:20
25:1 26:7
35:17 41:3
42:18,21 43:21
45:4 46:4
60:19

prices 24:15
price-fixed

principally

60:19

49:21

prior 59:14
privacy 57:20

private 3:11

57:25

29:23

probability

24:13,18 25:1

problem 6:2
14:17 16:2
28:14,17

problems 24:9

28:5

procedures

13:25

produced 51:9
product 12:4,6
49:12 51:13

prohibited

23:22

24:4

37:24

19:25 47:12
56:19 57:13
58:3,4,5,7

proposition 22:5

33:10

proscribed

50:25

protect 21:19,21

41:12 45:18
47:14 52:1,4
53:8,13

protected 28:24

28:25 36:19
41:6 47:11,15
47:17 49:4
52:17 53:18
54:4,11 55:13
55:23 56:6

protection 29:12

29:18 36:19
39:21 40:5
44:15 51:23
protects 40:15

56:21

prove 6:1,9 7:16

8:17 16:20
22:18,21 30:3
34:21 36:10,13
37:23 39:20
41:4 43:9
44:23

proved 34:22

43:9

provide 13:21
45:13 51:23
52:4

provided 13:24

14:12

provides 28:2
proving 43:19
provision 18:11

prudential 53:6

53:10,15

public 33:19
47:10 49:23

purchase 30:11

practices 22:19

prohibition 24:2

prearranged

promise 18:7

52:4

precisely 22:5
37:19 38:18
39:17 45:1

preclude 42:21

proper 27:3
property 3:18

6:22,25 11:6,7
11:18,24 15:3

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

71

30:11,25 41:24
44:11,20 51:11
52:1

purchased 8:11

14:11 51:20

purchaser 19:4

19:7,8

purchasers

51:23

purchases 13:19
purchasing 23:9
purely 44:7
purpose 12:17

45:22,23,24,25

purposes 9:4,5

13:7 17:14
19:14 51:13
pursue 44:17

put 15:9 29:3

46:21

37:12

Q

quality 5:19
15:6 22:13
28:2 35:16
36:6,7 41:2
45:5 46:5

quantification

quasi-contract

56:11

6:17

question 7:7 8:9
8:10 9:4,5 15:5
21:11,14,23,24
22:1 23:14
25:4,9 29:4
32:20 39:4
40:25 42:24
46:24 56:10
58:21

questions 21:1,1

61:21

qui 37:15
quite 4:13 35:4
quote 34:1

R

R 3:1
rate 5:17 13:15

15:12

rates 8:10
read 22:25 32:9
real 19:5,6

54:17

realistic 54:22
realize 29:7
really 3:22 11:8

14:12,19,20
25:15 58:20

reason 5:16

18:15 36:10
41:7 43:14
45:1 57:10,11

reasonable

18:18 24:12,17
25:1 50:24

reasonably 51:5
rebuttal 2:12

26:1 59:9
receive 4:4
41:13 42:1
received 5:20

6:10,13 12:13
13:14 14:4
34:6

receiving 6:20
recognition 61:9
recover 9:13

16:22

recoveries 20:20
recovery 4:23

39:23

redress 60:4,12
referral 14:5
33:7 35:12
41:23 42:7
45:6 46:19
48:23

referred 16:6

49:1

reflect 6:12,17

22:4 23:19

reflected 21:17

21:22

reflects 10:24
regarded 51:5
regularly 45:17
regulate 41:10

45:3,4,5
regulatory

17:14

reiterating 53:6
related 15:8
relation 31:6
relationship
19:8,11,13
20:6 21:12
28:6,9 29:14
31:19,19

relatively 6:16
relevant 46:3
relief 12:1 45:13
relies 22:5
remainder 26:8
remaining 59:8
remarks 61:3
repair 30:9
repeatedly 49:3

53:17

repeating 55:8
represent 18:3
represented

15:4

60:24

reputation 3:19

require 19:20
24:2 43:15
required 10:7
10:18 13:15
22:11 32:9,11
32:24 47:25
60:1,2,3

requirement
4:17 55:17
requirements

34:2 49:8

requires 3:11
17:10 46:25
51:9

rescission 40:19

research 15:7
reserve 25:19

26:8

residual 16:8
respect 6:11
16:3 22:1
55:14 61:19
Respondent

1:21,25 2:7,11
26:13 48:19
Respondents

9:20

response 20:25
responsibility

restitution 6:8

20:4

11:19

restraint 9:12
result 8:13 14:4
20:11 21:4,5
29:22 35:17
38:4 60:20

resulting 24:19
results 47:18
Revenue 49:10
rid 15:4
right 6:23 9:11

10:8 12:5,7
13:5,6 16:22
17:1 18:12
21:3,5 22:17
23:7 26:21
27:23 29:24,25
30:1,4 31:20
32:14,17 36:3
36:8,18 37:16
38:16 39:9,24
41:5,12 42:6
44:10,12 45:6
45:20,22,23
47:1,7,12
48:22,25 49:15
50:12 51:4
52:25 53:9,21
54:13,16,19
56:6,7,20 57:3
57:6,11 58:3,4

Alderson Reporting Company

58:5,7,9,12
rights 18:19
45:18 47:16
52:20 57:13,14

right's 57:4
rise 4:12
risk 14:20 16:8
road 14:18 43:7
ROBERTS 3:3
5:24 26:9 32:2
32:16,19 33:9
33:21,25 34:9
34:12,15,18,25
35:6,19,25
36:4,12,16
38:20 39:2
40:1,7,10,18
42:13,23 47:23
48:2,7,10,14
53:24 54:2,14
54:17,23 55:6
55:16,21 58:1
58:15,20 59:5
59:7 61:22

role 60:5
rule 38:12,14
47:19 53:6

rusty 30:9
S
S 2:1 3:1
safety 51:20,21
51:22,25 52:7
52:11
sale 27:6
satisfy 34:2
savings 24:19
saying 20:8,18
22:17 54:6,12
55:18

says 3:22 10:14

10:14 12:12
18:10 22:11
23:7 35:2 37:8
38:5 39:14
40:14 41:3
49:11 59:25

Official

72

29:20 32:21
33:2 37:1
39:14,17,23
40:14 43:15
53:8

statutes 45:17
statutory 3:15
4:11,15 9:1
12:23 13:5,6
20:24 22:10
23:2,19 32:14
32:16 38:1
41:19,22 47:7
48:22 52:4
60:10,14,14

step 52:19,22,22
stipulated 38:11
straight 34:8
straightforwa...

22:11

strange 28:10,13
strong 29:7
structure 37:3

studied 46:3
subject 60:7,25
submitted 61:24

62:1

substance 4:21

4:23 5:5,7 37:2
47:4

substantively

33:7 34:6

SUCCESSOR

1:4

sue 4:4,9 5:3
10:13 13:9
17:24 26:19
31:20 37:25
38:2 52:10
56:9 60:22

suffer 5:6
suffered 17:4,11

35:17 37:23
40:6 60:21

sufficient 13:3

13:20 30:5

33:20 37:25
39:8 50:11
54:7 60:1
sufficiently

23:15 26:22
47:8 53:19

suggested 17:21
suggesting 21:2
suing 49:8
suit 61:18
suits 20:21
29:19,23

support 35:20
supporting 1:24

2:11 48:19

suppose 16:12

17:19 18:9
23:5,5 24:11
27:7 49:5,6,9
51:8

supposed 4:24

25:17

Supreme 1:1,15
sure 8:9 10:1
15:5 22:16
27:3 56:18
57:8 61:19

sustained 49:1
sweep 45:20
systemic 23:21
25:12,15 26:5

T

T 2:1,1
tainted 59:2
take 25:25 28:11
29:14 31:1,12
49:9

taken 6:25 11:25
takes 43:16,16
talk 44:5
talking 10:7,11
36:1 37:7 58:3

tam 37:15
tangible 58:12
tax 50:3,6 53:12
taxes 49:12,17

specifically 21:8

42:25

Scalia 9:9 11:2,5
18:25 19:2,12
19:20 20:7,15
26:25 27:17,20
29:17 31:1,5,8
31:15 43:8,12
43:20 44:2,7
45:10,16 49:5
49:19,25 50:5
50:12,15,18,22
51:2,7 52:6,10
52:13 53:4,25
59:16 61:2
Scalia's 21:1

22:2

se 19:16 22:3
search 15:14
second 15:12
section 60:18
secure 16:18,19
security 57:19
see 10:1 20:19

28:6 29:5 32:6
40:18,19 53:8

seeing 36:23
seek 38:6 44:22
seeking 12:1
39:14,14,17
42:10 60:4,12

selecting 19:9
self-dealing

11:16

sell 3:24 58:3,13
seller 15:3 19:6
27:10 43:22,24
49:14,15

sells 11:6,17

60:19

sense 33:12 34:5

37:19 55:12

senses 33:5
separate 56:11
separately 21:24
serve 27:25
service 5:19 8:6
14:4,10,12,22
17:23 22:20

26:22 28:3
32:15 49:1,10
59:1

services 20:1

36:18
set 15:12
Sherman 9:11

9:13

shop 28:18,20
shot 31:21
show 3:12 8:7
8:23 9:6,13
17:22 23:10
30:20 31:23,25
39:5,25 60:20
showing 26:20
31:20 40:22

shown 9:10

34:19

side 27:8 34:10
significant
34:20,20

similarly 53:2
56:15 59:25
60:22

simply 41:15
50:8 51:21
52:19,22 55:12
55:19

single 46:5
situation 20:15
20:18 23:24
31:18 46:8
slide 33:13
sold 4:24 6:4

52:11

solely 57:12
Solicitor 1:22
somebody 31:9

31:24 34:8
37:22 43:16
45:6 58:4
60:18,25

sorry 5:24 32:19

40:2 53:25
61:2

sort 5:7 9:17

10:4 23:17,21
25:12,14 48:6
sorts 6:15 26:4
SOTOMAYOR
5:22 7:9,24 8:3
8:14,19,25
12:2,11,21
13:8 24:8
38:19 41:14,18
41:25 42:3,7

sought 17:4
sound 28:13
33:2 44:24

soundness 43:5
sounds 34:3
35:19,21

source 21:3,3,4
space 57:11
spare 49:7
spatial 56:21
speak 26:25
specific 54:20

58:25

35:23

specified 39:23
speculative
25:14,22

spending 44:18
split 61:15
stage 6:2 23:12
standard 30:12
standing 4:12

9:4 13:21
18:13 32:23
35:21 53:7,10
53:16 54:5
60:23 61:19
State 7:10 8:1

15:11 29:21,21
57:16

statement 58:24
States 1:1,15,24

2:10 7:12,13
7:25 48:18
status 41:6
statute 17:2 21:5

Alderson Reporting Company

50:25

tax-observant

49:14,15

telephone 4:7

57:20

tell 6:3 7:24

28:24,25 30:6
30:7 33:1
34:18 43:4

tend 7:5 22:19

22:20

term 47:5
terms 10:25
17:7 26:20

test 49:3 53:11
Thank 26:2,9,14
48:13,14 59:5
59:6,11 61:22

thanks 28:17
theory 25:2
thing 4:8 8:25
35:14 54:20
59:3

things 22:18
28:15 46:4
47:15,17 52:17
think 4:13 5:15

9:3 10:5,10
11:21 12:14
13:3 14:7
15:10,23 16:13
16:17,21 19:5
19:10 20:17
22:24 26:3,6
28:14 29:20
32:13 33:16
36:21 37:14,15
38:23 40:24,24
41:1 49:20
53:15,20 57:22
59:3

thinking 3:22
thought 11:4

14:25,25 21:6
32:22 34:25
37:6,16 39:10
threatened 57:4

three 7:11 32:5
32:10,12 33:14

threshold 50:7
tied 12:4
time 14:11,12

26:1 56:4
title 5:18 6:5
7:12 12:5
13:14,19,23
14:5,11,14,17
14:20,21,22,23
14:25 15:13,13
16:1,4,6,14,24
17:6 19:4,9
23:9,24,25
24:16 27:4,6
27:10 41:16
43:21,23 44:19
46:4,6,7 57:7

today 38:15
told 12:3
top 11:7
tort 9:17,17
Tower 16:11

traceability

17:20

25:16

trade 9:12
traditional 6:14
traditionally

59:4

transaction 5:12
10:17 11:19,22
16:24 17:5
26:19 27:16
30:1,2,5 41:5
42:12,14,17,18
44:11 46:6
48:23,24 58:25
58:25

treble 39:15
trespass 52:17

52:23 56:15,19
57:24 58:2,12

trial 34:21
trouble 32:3
troubled 61:4

Official

73

true 9:16
trust 6:22 10:2,2

10:5,7,9,15
19:8,11,13,21
20:4,6 21:20
22:23,25 31:19
32:10 41:8
42:9 44:17
47:20 56:17
trustee 10:18

11:6,12,16,17
20:10,11,12
37:14

trustees 10:19

20:20

trusts 20:20
try 3:24 11:19
21:10 51:18

trying 45:3
two 30:10 32:7
32:12 33:5,14
36:13 40:3
55:16 57:8
59:12

type 3:16 7:19

10:6 22:7
30:21 53:2
54:20 59:3

types 51:25 56:4

U

umbrella 56:1
unclear 51:17
underlying

19:24 45:3,19
45:21

undermine
27:25 28:1
31:13 44:22
undermined

41:24

undermines
44:16 45:8

understand 8:9

20:7 25:8
32:24 46:11
50:4 55:9,18

understanding
22:17 24:22
underwriter

underwriting

23:25

16:8

undifferentiat...

26:24 33:19
49:23

undo 11:22
uniform 61:13
unique 35:1
United 1:1,15,24

2:10 48:18

universe 44:14
unjust 6:8,12,15

6:17

unlawful 7:6
9:12,14 37:5

unlawfully 49:1

59:2

unrelated 17:14
untainted 46:19
untied 12:6
unusual 7:10

37:5

unwind 10:16

11:15,19

use 3:20 35:20

50:17 51:12,22

V

v 1:8 3:5 30:21

49:21

vague 10:5 44:2
valuable 33:7,24
34:6,23 35:13
value 10:25 18:2
18:18 33:18,22
33:23 34:3,7
35:12 44:13
61:9

various 8:10
vehicle 30:13

51:24,24

vehicles 51:25
version 36:24

versus 15:6
victims 51:5
view 50:23
violate 54:7
violated 10:16

48:25

violation 3:14
4:12,15 5:16
8:13 12:23
13:6 14:6
15:25 19:13,17
20:3 21:23
22:3,10 24:21
25:16 32:21
33:2 40:4 54:4
55:12 59:22,24
59:24 60:10,14

W

want 8:5,8 10:16

25:25 28:25
32:4,20 33:1
38:8 39:12
40:7,10,13,21
42:14,14,16,16
43:8 57:5,6
58:6

wanted 45:10
wants 28:9 49:9
Washington

1:11,18,20,23
wasn't 4:24 25:4
36:7 37:9 53:7

way 9:7 10:18
11:25 19:17
33:19 34:16
37:12 46:19
well-respected

23:7

went 25:20
we'll 3:3 30:10

50:17,21

we're 10:7 29:2
35:25 36:12,13
37:7 38:22,25
39:16 41:9,10
41:11,12 43:14

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

74

$453 43:22,23
$455 41:16

42:11

$500 4:3,16,23
16:22 40:22
42:16 49:13
51:11

1

10-708 1:6 3:4
10:03 1:16 3:2
11:02 61:25

2

2 4:25
2011 1:12
26 2:7
28 1:12
280 26:16 43:16

3

4

3 2:4

4 59:8
48 2:11

5
500 52:13
59 2:14

7

7:00 3:23,23

9

98 4:21

45:5,25

we've 35:20
whatsoever

14:21 27:15
52:24 56:8

white 44:3
Whitmore 34:1
Wildlife 49:22

54:10

willing 18:6
word 35:20
words 4:20
worked 16:20
working 15:3
works 24:11
worse 3:13 6:20

9:8

worth 58:6
wouldn't 25:22

38:5

write 17:1
wrong 11:21

28:15

X
x 1:2,10
Y

Yang 1:22 2:9
48:16,17,20
49:5,18,20
50:4,7,14,17
50:21,23 51:3
51:17 52:12,14
53:15 54:8,16
54:19 55:2,11
55:20,22 56:23
57:1,4,9,22
58:14,19,23
59:5,6

years 26:16

38:12 43:16
47:20

$

$1 38:7,21 39:8
$1,000 28:16
$10,000 38:4

Alderson Reporting Company

