Official

1

       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
MICHAEL MARTEL, WARDEN,           :
            Petitioner            :
       v.                         :  No. 10-1265
KENNETH CLAIR.                    :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Tuesday, December 6, 2011

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:03 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
WARD A. CAMPBELL, ESQ., Supervising Deputy Attorney
   General, Sacramento, California; for
   Petitioner.
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
   Respondent.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

2

                     C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
WARD A. CAMPBELL, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                      3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondent                      27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
WARD A. CAMPBELL, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                      53

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

3

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                            (10:03 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-1265, Martel v. Clair.
            Mr. Campbell.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF WARD A. CAMPBELL
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            For 12 years, Mr. Clair's Federal habeas
corpus petition was litigated in the Federal district
court in front of the same Federal district court judge.
His petition raised 39 challenges to his guilt and
penalty, and the judge oversaw years of discovery,
presided over a 2-day evidentiary hearing, and received
extensive briefing.
            When the case was under submission,
Mr. Clair sent a letter to the judge expressing
dissatisfaction with his team of attorneys from the
Federal Public Defender's office and requested that they
be replaced.  The judge asked both sides' counsel for
their position on Clair's complaint.  The Federal Public
Defender responded that, after conferring with their
client, Mr. Clair was willing to continue with them for
that point.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

4

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            The court then stated it would take no
further action.  Three months later, just before the
court was to issue its decision in the case, Clair
complained again.  The court issued a written order --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Was there some way
that Clair knew that the court was just about to issue
its decision?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I think, Your Honor, the only
way you could be sure was the fact that at some point,
as I understand it, the district court judge had
announced the day he would be retiring, which would be
June 30th of 2005.  So, there's probably an inference
there it could be expected that the decision was going
to be coming out by the end of the -- end of June 2005.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  There was a deadline set
for all submissions, wasn't there?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  There was an initial deadline
set for the filing of the briefing, post-evidentiary
hearing briefing, and there would be no extensions of
time.
            Subsequently, there was, in fact, another
submission by Mr. Clair in May of 2005 with some
additional declarations.  The court accepted those
declarations but made it clear it would accept no
additional submissions in the case unless it ordered

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

5

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

otherwise, that it would proceed with the decision.
            Once upon -- anyway, in June, June 16th,
2005, Mr. Clair sent a second complaint about his
counsel again, and the district court issued a written
order denying that request, finding that Clair's counsel
was doing a proper job and did not appear to have a
conflict of interest.
            The district court had an excellent factual
basis for that conclusion because it had just completed
work on its extensive order denying the petition in Mr.
Clair's case.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But this petition had
something new, the report that his investigator had
turned up this evidence.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  That's correct, Your Honor.
The -- what Mr. Clair's complaint indicated, there was
some additional physical evidence that had not been
examined or investigated before.  He indicated that the
Federal Public Defender actually had met with the Orange
County law enforcement about the evidence, and he was
upset that there was no further action being taken by
the Federal Public Defender regarding testing, seeking
DNA testing or testing of that evidence.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  There has been some
additional litigation regarding this physical evidence

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

6

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

since this -- the time of the -- the unsuccessful
substitution request; hasn't there been?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  That's correct.  After --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Could you tell us what has
happened with that?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I'm sorry?
            JUSTICE ALITO:  I'm sorry.  Could you tell
us what has happened with that litigation?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  The status of that
litigation:  Once the petition was denied, Mr. Clair
filed a notice -- there was a notice of appeal filed by
the Federal Public Defender.  Mr. Clair also filed a
notice of appeal because of the denial of his
substitution motion.  Those are merged together.
Mr. Clair was appointed new counsel.
            The new counsel then filed Rule -- a Rule --
a request to the district court to entertain a
Rule 60(b) motion, which the district court denied.  The
Ninth Circuit ordered that the district court consider
the Rule 60(b) motion.  The district court heard the
Rule 60(b) motion and then denied it.
            Mr. Clair then filed a protective petition,
a petition for writ of habeas corpus for a successor
petition, with the Ninth Circuit and has also filed a
petition for writ of habeas corpus for the California

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

7

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Supreme Court.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  That's what I was referring
to.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Yes.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And what -- what has
happened there?  Was there -- was there testing of this
evidence in connection with that?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  There -- there had been --
there has been some testing of the evidence during --
during that time by the Orange County law enforcement in
regards to its relationship to the crime or its
relationship to another crime that occurred at that
time, which I think that information is set forth in the
-- the appendix to the opposition to the petition for
certiorari.
            The --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm sorry.  Can you
remind me of what the outcome of that testing was?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  The -- the outcome of the
testing is that, to the extent that the testing was done
to see if the -- there was any DNA matching between the
other murder that had occurred a couple days before and
the murder of Ms. Rodgers -- let's see if I can say this
succinctly.  The -- there was -- there was no matching
of Mr. Clair's DNA with anything from the murder scene

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

8

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

of the Rodgers murder, and there was no matching of any
DNA that was found for the perpetrator of the other
murder at the site of Ms. Rodgers' murder.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, as I read your
briefs, I think you're making, perhaps, two different
arguments.  And I want to focus you in on which one
you're really concentrating on.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Okay.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Which is this
presentation seems to be that, regardless of what
standard we apply to the court of appeals' review of
what the district court did in denying the motion to
substitute counsel, that it was wrong.  And I presume
that means it was wrong for the standard you're
proposing and it was wrong for the interests of justice
standard.  Am I correct?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I -- yes, Your Honor.  I
think under any standard that would apply, we think that
the -- that the Ninth Circuit's disposition is
incorrect.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  All right.  As I read
the Ninth Circuit decision, assuming an interests of
justice standard because that's the one they invoked,
they said what happened here is that the district court
didn't hold a hearing to determine itself exactly what

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

9

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the dispute was about.  And so, it was a process
failure, basically is what they're saying.
            Now, you make assumptions based on matters
that have come up since that hearing about what the
dispute was about, and -- but I still don't know what
the Federal defender's position was as to whether or not
communications had broken down with the client to a
point where they thought, as they did on appeal, that
they couldn't continue.
            So, tell me why, assuming we accept that an
interests of justice standard applies, the circuit court
has no power or applied it improperly by saying --
forget about the remedy -- has no power to say, district
court judges, you have to at minimum inquire and set
forth your reasons based on the facts of that inquiry.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Yes.  And the reason is, is
that, looking at the record and what was presented to
the Federal district court at the time it received the
request by Mr. Clair in June of 2005, what Mr. Clair's
allegation was, was that he disagreed with the
investigative, tactical, strategic decisions that were
being made by the Federal Public Defender.  That's --
that was the reason that was in Mr. Clair's -- Mr.
Clair's allegations.  Those premises, even --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But what does that have

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

10

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

to do with "I think they're doing a good job"?  I mean,
it could well be that the judge later decides, after he
hears from the Federal defender, I don't think that --
we don't think there's anything to be done; he
disagrees.  But he really never got an explanation from
the Federal defenders.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I'm sorry.  I didn't --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  He never got an
explanation from the Federal defenders.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Your Honor, it in fact -- it
would be -- it's appropriate -- if the record -- if the
allegations of the -- of the Petitioner and the record
before the court is sufficient for the court to make the
finding that there is in fact no basis for substitution,
it is not necessary for the court to go ahead and
conduct an inquiry or a hearing or to initiate other
further process in the case.  And the allegation here
which went to the physical evidence in the case from the
standpoint of the evidence in this case and the way this
case was prosecuted and the evidence of Mr. Clair's
guilt, the fact that there was additional physical
evidence that might be available simply wouldn't have
supported any cognizable claims in the Federal habeas
corpus action.  There was no need for any further
investigation or inquiry on the part of the court based

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

11

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

on what was presented to it at the time.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  What about a -- a possible
Brady claim?  Is there a disagreement about whether this
physical evidence could have been tested at the time and
revealed anything at the time of the trial?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  There I have to -- I think I
have to take what the Ninth Circuit says in its opinion
about this case, which is what we have here is physical
evidence that could be subject to forensic testing now
that was not available in 1987.  So, the fact that there
might be later -- there might have been developments in
forensic techniques since 1987 when Mr. Clair's trial
occurred doesn't support any claim of trial error back
in 1987.  You can't show any prejudice from any -- from
any failure back in 1987 because the testing wasn't
available to do that they now want to do.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  What about an actual
innocence claim?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Well, an actual innocence
claim, I think to begin with, it wouldn't be clear,
based on this Court's jurisprudence at the time, that a
factual innocence claim would be cognizable in this
Federal habeas corpus proceeding.  It would be a -- this
Court has indicated to the -- has never really actually
held that that is a cognizable claim.  Even if it -- it

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

12

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

did, it wouldn't be an exhausted -- it would certainly
be an unexhausted claim.  California, in fact, does
entertain that type of claim, does provide a State
avenue for that type of claim.
            There's plenty of reasons why you would not
raise that claim at this point, especially at the end of
the process in the first Federal habeas corpus petition.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  You are familiar with
3599(e), aren't you?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Which requires counsel
to participate in subsequent proceedings.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Of a certain type and
limited.
            Is it your position that if there is a
complete breakdown of communications with an attorney,
post-habeas decision, that that is inadequate in the
interests of justice or otherwise for a court to say
that could implicate proceedings after 3599, so I should
substitute now?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Actually, Your Honor, yes, it
is.  At that point, the defendant has, of course,
already gone through the trial, the State appeal, and
the State habeas process, and it's particularly at the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

13

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

State trial and the State appellate process, of course,
the standard for substitution of counsel is the
potential total breakdown of communications,
irreconcilable conflict, conflict of interest.  By the
time you've gone through the entire process by which you
have gone through the State trial, you've exhausted your
claims in State court --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Oh, but you're presuming
you're going to win.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Excuse me?
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  You're presuming you're
going to win.  I think 3599 applies to situations in
which the habeas petitioner wins a remand or otherwise
has something that's going to follow the habeas
decision.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Well, Your Honor, the -- the
point is, is that by the time you have reached that
juncture in which the claims have been raised and
litigated multiple times in multiple forums, that the
need for the type of communication and contact that
occurs at the trial and State appellate level is not as
essential or necessary at that juncture.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, suppose -- suppose
the public defender had said to the district court what
it said to the Ninth Circuit, and that is that the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

14

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

attorney-client relationship has broken down to such an
extent that substitution would be appropriate, what
wasn't asked, but suppose the public defender had given
that answer to the district judge.  Would the district
judge still have rightly denied the motion for
substitution?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Yes, he would have,
especially given that the case at that point was
completely under submission and simply awaiting for
decision.  At that point, we're -- there is, in fact, no
more litigation to be occurring, the -- whatever the
problem with communication is at that point is not going
to in any way adversely affect the -- the
representation.  The case is over.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  If I understand your answers
to some of these questions, you are not at all relying
on the fact that the district court had made this
decision 2 months earlier.  You think that the answer
would be the same had the district court not made an
inquiry 2 months earlier; is that correct?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  That -- that is correct.  I
mean, if -- yes.  That -- that is an extra fact in this
case, but I don't think that's the pivotal fact as far
as what the district court could have done as far as
exercising its direction -- its discretion in June when

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

15

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

it received the complaint from Mr. -- Mr. Clair.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  So, when is a district court
required to engage in some kind of inquiry?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Well, when the -- when the
allegation is made that -- by the petitioner that he
has, in fact, been denied what he is entitled to under
3599, which is the appointment and representation by
counsel qualified under that statute.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, I -- I was again
assuming, as Justice Sotomayor was, that if we're in an
interest of justice world, if that's the appropriate
standard, when is the district -- when does the district
court have to make an inquiry, and what kind of inquiry
does he have to make?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  The inquiry -- the inquiry
would occur when an allegation was made that, for
whatever reason, the counsel does not meet the
qualifications that are expected to be met, the counsel
has an adverse conflict of interest, or counsel has
basically reached a point where he is no longer
representing or acting as an advocate for --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, you're -- I thought
that that test was an alternative to the interest of
justice standard.  I'm positing that the interest of
justice standard applies, and you're giving me back

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

16

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

those same three factors.  Do you think that that's all
the interest of justice standard is about?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I think in the context of the
Federal habeas corpus action, that is in fact -- in
which there's a statutory right to counsel -- that is in
fact the interest -- where the interests of justice
standard would be.  The interests of --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, this is sort of a
made-up standard.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  No --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Can you point to one
case in which this standard has been used by any
district court or court of appeals?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  No, I cannot, but --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Can you point to any
inquiry by Congress in which such a test was discussed,
considered in any way?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  No, I cannot.  But --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Where did you get it
from?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  It's actually analogous to
the way this Court over the years has divided up the
jurisprudence regarding the Sixth Amendment right to
counsel and the dividing line between claims of
ineffective assistance of counsel and claims of denial

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

17

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

of counsel.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, so, what you're
suggesting is in noncapital cases, which are less
serious, you're going to have a higher bar for a right
that the statute gives a judge without any limitation.
The capital limitation is that the judge on its own
motion or a motion by defendant can substitute.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  No, we're not in the context
of a noncapital habeas.  There's never -- there has
never been any construction, certainly by this Court, of
what "interests of justice" means in the context of
substitution of counsel, of a statutory counsel, in the
context of either capital or noncapital habeas.  And
whether it's --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, how about a standard
that the courts are used to and one that has a basis in
Congress's choice, like interests of justice?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Well, actually, Your Honor, I
think -- I think that we have in fact, to the extent we
are analogizing to what this Court has long done as far
as dividing questions of Sixth Amendment claims between
ineffective assistance of counsel and denial of
counsel -- we're in fact submitting a concept that is
actually very familiar to this Court and very similar to
what this Court deals with in many Sixth Amendment

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

18

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

claims.
            We're simply looking at it in the context
now of the fact that you've been given, or entitled, a
statutory entitlement to be represented by counsel.  You
are entitled to protect that right to the extent to
vindicate that particular right, which is to be
appointed that counsel.  If you're denied that right,
then you, in fact, have a legitimate reason to ask for
new counsel, for new counsel to be appointed.  The
interests of justice standard doesn't have a fixed
meaning, really, in any context.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  If it doesn't have a fixed
meaning.  I mean, wouldn't you think -- I suspect the
answer is you do think that -- a district judge has a
lot of power in many, many areas, and in one of those
areas, some district judge sometime could make a
horrendous mistake that really wrecks a case, and in
such a matter, the court of appeals, if it sees a really
horrendous error, will probably have the authority to
say you went beyond whatever standard applies, at least
here, at least -- okay, we agree on that one.
            So, they use some words, "effectiveness,"
whatever the words are, "interest of justice," just to
reflect that fact.  I mean, that's what I think what
happened.  Then your complaint is he didn't abuse his --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

19

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

he didn't really abuse anything; he made a good
decision, the district judge.  Isn't that what that
comes down to?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  That is certainly an aspect
of the complaint, But the -- to us what's very
important --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  What's important?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  What is important here is
that the premise of the Ninth Circuit's opinion is that
it would be an acceptable motion for substitution for
the -- for Mr. Clair to complain or allege disagreements
with his counsel about --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  So, what's
bothering you is the way they applied it.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Well --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And they applied it in
circumstances that you think -- the district judge was
actually -- his decision was fine.  You don't have the
power to set that aside because it was within -- it's
within the scope of any kind of standard you want to
call it, including calling it "interests of justice."
Am I right in thinking that, that that's really your
concern?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Yes, our concern, Your Honor,
is that the premise of the Ninth Circuit's opinion is --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

20

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

goes to what the appropriate standard, what the
appropriate level of complaint, whatever you want to
call it --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  So, what you
really want us to do is to look at the record of the
case, go through it, and say, here, whatever words
you're going to use, the district court acted within his
discretion in saying don't change the counsel.  Is that
what you -- is that what I'm supposed to do?  I'm trying
to get at what you want me to do.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  That -- yes, that is -- yes.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  No, you don't want that.
You don't want to stay whatever words you use.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No, I'm not --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You want us to say the
words to be used are the words that we use in deciding
whether you have been accorded your constitutional right
to counsel, right?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  That's -- that's correct,
Your Honor.  I think the confusion here --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I didn't mean literally
"whatever words you use."
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Well --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm trying to figure out
what you want me to do.  One is to go back and search

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

21

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

all the cases that use some words for a standard, which,
as you can tell, I'm reluctant to think that that's
meaningful in this case.
            The other is to look at the record to see if
he acted within what you would normally think of as the
district court's discretionary authority.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I think the confusion here is
caused by the fact that the Ninth Circuit opinion
started out by borrowing the phrase "interests of
justice" and inserting it into a section where it is --
where it was not inserted, and it would appear to be a
deliberate act of Congress to do that, and then it gave
it a meaning which we think under any circumstances
would be inappropriate in this context.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I suppose you don't
think that the standard of review is abuse of
discretion, because if you do, then I suppose you're
assuming that the district court has discretion whether
to grant the motion or not instead of being confined by
a particular standard.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Well, abuse of discretion --
if the Court is wrong as a matter of law, of course, it
automatically -- I mean, that is an abuse of discretion.
            And our -- our feeling here about the Ninth
Circuit's opinion is that the way it has defined what

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

22

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

would be appropriate in terms of a motion for a
substitution and what would trigger an inquiry by the
judge -- you know, as a matter of law the Ninth Circuit
was wrong in this case.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, but abuse of
discretion doesn't mean that the judge operates in a
vacuum.  If we make -- issue an opinion and say, oh,
well, that the standard is an abuse of discretion, that
doesn't tell people too much.  Abuse of discretion based
on what standards, what inquiries?  And that's -- and
I'd like to know what your position is on that, because
it seems to me that, at the end of the day, it's going
to be something very close to interests of justice.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Well, Your Honor, that's --
and I suppose the substance -- if we want to call it an
interests of justice standard, the substance of it would
be that it would not be -- substitution would not be --
it would not be appropriate to move for substitution on
the basis of disagreements with counsel about tactical
or investigative decisions, such as what Mr. Clair did
here.  The appropriate standard is whether or not there
has been an actual denial of counsel as provided under
section 3599.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, can I give you
an example?  Beginning of the litigation, all right?

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

23

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Capital counsel is appointed.  Capital counsel wants to
raise challenges to the conviction and sentence, and
defendant says:  I don't -- I want to die.  Is a
district court entitled to substitute that counsel under
your theory?  Because you said to me it has to be
counsel that's -- that counsel that has abandoned the
client.  Counsel doesn't want to abandon the client;
counsel wants to prosecute the case.  There's no
conflict of interest.  Counsel's not representing
anybody else.  And what was your third criteria?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Qualifications, just the
basic standard of qualification.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, this is -- you
know, this is Seth Waxman sitting right next to you.
            (Laughter.)
            MR. CAMPBELL:  He's undoubtedly qualified,
Your Honor.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I -- I suspect that's
the case.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Otherwise he wouldn't have
the appointment.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, beginning of the
case, first decision, and defendant comes in and says
substitute my attorney.  What would be your argument
under your test?

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

24

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. CAMPBELL:  There are several responses
to that.  At one level, the client would -- always has a
-- and I think always has basic -- basic decisionmaking
authority over basic decisions, whether or not a
petition should be filed or not filed, this type of
thing.  So, a failure of an attorney to abide by that
particular instruction would in fact be a failure to --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, there are some
decisions that -- that the client controls?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  There have always been some
basic decisions a client makes in any -- in any case.
But it's not --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  That's not abandonment.
That's an error.  That's a problem.  But it's not
abandonment under your definition.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  It is in fact the failure of
the lawyer to truly act as an agent for the client at
that point.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, if I tell my
attorney follow these leads, that's a failure of an
agent as well.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  It's -- it's -- actually,
though, that is in fact normally always considered to be
an area that's within the domain of the attorney.  Those
types of investigative tactical decisions have always

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

25

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

been the decisions that attorneys have normally made for
their clients and not necessarily under the control of
their clients.
            But let me tell you about the volunteer
situation, as a practical matter.  The volunteer
situation is a whole -- almost a whole separate category
of litigation from the kind of litigation we're talking
about.  And what normally happens in those cases is
counsel is not substituted; usually, frequently, a
second counsel is brought in to deal with representing
the client on those particular issues, and the first
counsel remains.  So, that's become --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  A volunteer issue?  What
are you talking about?  I'm --
            MR. CAMPBELL:  A volunteer issue is when
someone says:  I do not want to pursue my remedies; I
want to simply be executed.  In the practice, we call
that a volunteer.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You call that a
volunteer --
            MR CAMPBELL:  We call that a volunteer.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Volunteer.  Volunteering to
be executed?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  That's -- that's the normal
term of art.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

26

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Given my example, isn't
it the case that, under the interests of justice
standard, there will be situations in which a
substitution like the one I just posited would be right
that wouldn't be right under your standard?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Your Honor, I think that
actually our standard would cover what is appropriate
for protecting the defendant's statutory right to
counsel and that --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Are you suggesting that,
for noncapital defendants, Congress chose to give them
more rather than less?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  No, not -- not at all.  I
don't think -- I don't think noncapital or capital
habeas petitioners have any greater -- have any greater
right to the assistance of counsel.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But you're saying
capital have lesser rights.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I think -- my guess -- I
don't think -- I don't think this Court has ever drawn a
categorical difference between them in terms of what
rights are available to them for purposes of
representation by counsel.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Isn't delay one of the
factors that courts routinely look at under the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

27

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

interests of justice standard?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Yes.  And I -- you know, once
-- any motion for substitution, no matter what standard
you use, should be -- should be made promptly.  So
should --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, we go back to
Justice Breyer's point that, even under the interests of
justice standard, you're claiming there was an error?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Absolutely.  Oh, yes.  Yes.
We would submit even under that standard it would be an
error.
            Your Honor, unless there's any more
questions --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Waxman.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN
               ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
            MR. WAXMAN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            The court of appeals held that it was an
abuse of discretion to deny substitution without making
any inquiry, even of counsel, into the specific
situation alleged by Mr. Clair.  The court did not hold
that Mr. Clair was entitled to substitute counsel.  It
did not hold that he was entitled to amend his petition.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

28

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

It did not hold that substitute counsel was even
required or advised to seek --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Is inquiry always --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, what if last
week we get notice from Mr. Clair that he is
dissatisfied with his Supreme Court counsel, that
communication has broken down, that you plan to argue
particular -- present particular arguments, and he
doesn't want you to do that.  Do we have an obligation
to conduct an inquiry into his complaint?
            MR. WAXMAN:  I think if you have any
obligation whatsoever -- and I want to make clear that
there -- these kinds of letters and requests for
last-minute substitutions happen all the time, and in
the mine run, there may not be any duty of independent
inquiry.  If you had one, it would simply be to do what
the court did in March, which is to inquire of the two
counsel in the case, is there anything to this, and then
rule.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No.  He says -- he
says:  I've turned up new evidence, or I think this is a
great argument, and my counsel has told me he is not
going to raise it, and I want new counsel who will raise
this argument.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

29

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            Will we have to say -- look at it and say,
well, we have to figure out is that a good argument; is
it better than the ones counsel are going to raise?
            MR. WAXMAN:  No --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Has communication
broken down.
            MR. WAXMAN:  No, of course not.  In this
situation, the Court had pending before it a first
petition for habeas corpus that alleged both ineffective
assistance of counsel at trial and specific Brady
violations.  And, by the way, in answer to your first
question, the district judge announced that he was
retiring on June 27th, effective the 30th.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I want to --
            MR. WAXMAN:  So, this was beforehand.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I want to ask you
about that.  You mention that no fewer than six times in
your brief.  What is your point, that the judge altered
his disposition of a legal matter before him for his
personal convenience?
            MR. WAXMAN:  No.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Then what's the
significance of the fact that he was going to retire?
            MR. WAXMAN:  The -- the significance of the
fact that he -- he hadn't announced that he was going to

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

30

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

retire.  The significance of the fact that he did retire
is only to my mind an explanation for why he failed to
conduct the minimal inquiry --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, you are
saying --
            MR. WAXMAN:  -- that he had previously --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, you are saying
he violated his judicial oath for his own personal
convenience, that he failed to do something that you say
he should have done, because he was retiring?
            MR. WAXMAN:  I'm not -- he -- the error
would have been the same if he had stayed on the bench
for another 10 years.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, why do you say
six times in your brief that the judge was retiring the
next day or retired the next day?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Because -- it goes to their
complaints with the remedy in the case.  That is,
they're faulting that the remedy is not go back and ask
this judge to decide whether substitution was
appropriate.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  There was another
judge.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  There is another

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

31

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

judge.  She's available.  I have to say it strikes me,
frankly, as argument by innuendo that I think is very
unjustified.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, I -- I apologize if it
gave that impression.  I don't mean any innuendo in the
case.  Our proposition is simply this:  Prior to
adjudicating the claims of ineffective assistance of
counsel and Brady, when the court receives a letter that
says, Your Honor, I'm sorry for writing a second time.
As you know, I have always maintained that I'm innocent.
My investigator has just discovered physical evidence in
the State's files that he believes may clear me.  My
counsel --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. Waxman, what --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'm still trying to
get to the point -- I'm sorry.  I'm still trying to get
to the point of the relevance of the fact that he was
retiring.
            MR. WAXMAN:  It goes to the remedy, and it
goes to the fact he --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How does it go --
how does it go to the remedy?
            MR. WAXMAN:  It -- they are alleging that
there was an abuse of discretion not to send it back to
the judge to do what he had declined to do.  And our

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

32

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

proposition is, because substitute counsel had been in
place for 5 years and because the judge who had
superintended the case for 12 years was no longer there,
it was appropriate and within the court of appeals'
discretion under 28 U.S.C. 2106 to remand it to the new
judge, with new counsel, for -- to allow new counsel
simply to ask the new judge, who had not heard all of
the witnesses or the evidence, to demonstrate why, if
counsel thought it was appropriate, to allow him to
amend the petition under Rule 15(a)(2).
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. Waxman --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, that would be pretty
incredible.  Maybe that's what's required.  Why isn't
this is a fair reading of what Judge Taylor did?  As of
April 29th, as I recall, there was not a problem with
the representation.  And the decision was made on
June the 30th.  Now, on June the 16th, that's the time
when Clair sent his letter.
            By this point, the petition had been pending
for a long time before the judge.  The judge presumably
was approaching the point where he was going to issue
his decision.  He saw the letter.  He could not see any
way in which the matters that were discussed in the
letters could lead to a claim that would go anywhere.
As to the physical evidence, if it couldn't have been

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

33

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

tested at the time of trial, there would not have been a
Brady obligation, and an actual innocence claim here
would be quite far-fetched in light of the very
incriminating statements that -- that Mr. Clair made in
the tape-recorded conversation.
            Had he substituted counsel, he would not
have been under an obligation, I think, to allow
substituted counsel to amend the petition, which had
been pending for a long period of time.  So, he said:
Counsel is doing a proper job; there doesn't appear to
be a conflict of interest; and I'm going to deny this.
            Now, counsel could have been appointed and,
in fact, was appointed to represent Mr. Clair going
forward.  Why isn't that a fair reading of what he did?
And if so, what need was there for further inquiry?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, this -- it may very well
be what was in his thought processes, but we don't know
that.  And, in any event --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But we know what was in
his thought processes, Mr. Waxman, because 14 days later
he issued a 60- or 61-page opinion with -- dealing with
47 different claims, many of which, many of which,
related to actual innocence, which was the -- the
gravamen of the letter of the complaint on the 16th.
So, you -- you can't consider the letter just in

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

34

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

isolation from the 61-page opinion that's issued 16 days
later.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Oh, I -- I think that the --
that a district judge faced with a request to substitute
counsel at this very late stage is appropriately --
appropriately takes into account everything that has
happened, everything that he has allowed to happen,
everything that defense counsel has -- has done.  And he
is obviously permitted to approach this request with a
high degree of skepticism and a strong --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  And you suggest, Mr. Waxman,
that he did not have to make an inquiry in every case;
is that right?  You're not saying that.
            MR. WAXMAN:  That's right.  I mean --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  So, what -- when does a
person have to make an inquiry?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, of course --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  What in this case required
an inquiry on the judge's part?
            MR. WAXMAN:  I think, you know, if the
district judge is presented with factually supported
allegations that appointed counsel has failed to pursue
newly discovered evidence that may be germane to an
issue to be decided, especially where the potential
import of that evidence is specifically explicated and

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

35

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

corroborated by a willing percipient witness, in this
case the investigator who viewed it, the district judge
has an obligation simply to ask counsel for the State
and counsel for the defense, please respond, as the
judge did in June -- in March.
            Now, in March, the judge -- the judge asked
for a response --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, I guess this goes back
to Justice Alito's question, but suppose the judge says
to himself, even if the response comes in, yes,
relations are terrible because the client wants the
lawyers to -- to investigate a particular thing and the
lawyers don't want to investigate that thing.  The judge
knows it doesn't make a difference either way, because
he is ready to issue his opinion, and further
investigation of this evidence is not going to change
his mind as to any material issue.  Why should the judge
not reject the motion?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, because the judge could
not know that based on the allegations in the Ford
letter and the Clair letter.
            It is not the case, going to Justice Alito's
point from my question to my friend, that what was
represented in that letter, the new physical evidence
related only to DNA testing.  There was a specific

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

36

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

allegation that there were fingerprints located at the
scene of the crime that previously had been represented
to the trial court and to defense counsel either to be
unusable or on materials that had gone through the U.S.
mail so that the probative value would be limited.  And
both of those things were untrue.
            And Mr. Ford said to the judge:  I'm
prepared to explain to you exactly what those prints
are, and they have not been tested against anyone,
including the other people who were suspected of the
identical type murder the night before in the same area
or other potential suspects in this case like Mr.
Henriksen.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  The Ninth Circuit -- I
see -- I think I see what they were trying to get at.
They want -- they don't see anything practical here to
do except to try to get the judge, the district judge,
to focus on the question of whether the petition should
be amended to assert this kind of claim about the new
physical evidence; is that right?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Yes.  They were --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  That's where they're trying
to go.  Okay.  Now, suppose you lose this case.  Suppose
you -- they were to say -- suppose this Court said,
well, to tell you the truth, that district judge was

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

37

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

operating within his authority in saying that this
counsel can continue to represent him.  But we know
subsequently relations broke down, and now there is a
new counsel.  All right?
            Can't the new counsel go back to the
district court and say, Judge, we'd like to amend the
petition so that you will consider, you know, whether it
should be amended to include this physical evidence
claim?  Couldn't he do that?
            MR. WAXMAN:  He can't ask to -- to amend a
petition in a case in which there's a final judgment.
He could file a -- he could file a Rule 60(b) motion,
which he did in this case --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And what did --
            MR. WAXMAN:  -- and face the very --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And the judge -- I think
you answered this, but I can't remember the answer.
What happened when he filed the 60(b)?  Did they amend
the petition or did they consider the thing or not?
            MR. WAXMAN:  No.  While the appeal was
pending, so that he wouldn't be accused of having simply
sat on his rights while the Ninth Circuit was deciding,
he filed a Rule 60 -- he filed for leave to file a Rule
60(b) motion and said in essence:  Look, the
investigator has discovered this new evidence.  I

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

38

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

haven't been able to test it or examine it.  Please give
me leave to do that, because I believe it may support
reopening the judgment.
            The district judge said:  I'm not going to
allow you to make that motion.
            The Ninth Circuit issued a mandamus
directing the district judge to rule on the motion.  She
then denied it, essentially finding that the motion
should be denied because Mr. Grele, substitute counsel,
hadn't already proven to her what it is that he was
seeking to find out; that is, what does this evidence
show.  And --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  So, there's no -- in other
words, what the Ninth Circuit in my view is trying to do
is they've worked out some complicated way of trying to
get the district court to consider the motion about the
new physical evidence.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Yes, I --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And if that -- if that's
right, then unless you -- there's no way to get there.
I don't see how you get there under the law.  And so,
that's my --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Mr. --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  But what do you think?  I'd
just like to know what he's --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

39

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. WAXMAN:  I have an answer to your
question, but, of course, I'll defer to any superseding
questions from --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  It has to go with the
scope of the remedy that they did.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Uh-huh.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Assuming, as I do and
you just said, that what the Ninth Circuit said is
there's -- he should have gotten a reason, an
explanation, but now there's a new attorney anyway, so,
what do we do, isn't the normal thing to do just to
remand it, to let the district court decide what steps
it wants to take, including to decide whether or not it
would have granted the motion for substitution if it had
heard the explanation?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Meaning, there was a new
judge, but that doesn't -- a new judge is never stopped
from considering --
            MR. WAXMAN:  No, of course --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- what has happened in
a case and to decide whether under the facts as they
existed at the time --
            MR. WAXMAN:  Of course not.  I mean, even
the State acknowledges that asking the judge whether or

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

40

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

not there should be substitution when there has been
substituted counsel since the appeal was taken is, as
they call it, an academic exercise.  But, technically,
the judge --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But it's not academic.
It wasn't academic for the judge below, the new judge --
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- to say what happened
back then; I don't believe the motion was timely; I
don't believe that you were foreclosed from doing other
things; motion to substitute would have been denied --
            MR. WAXMAN:  Right.  I guess --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- end of case.
            MR. WAXMAN:  I guess -- I'm not sure there's
a huge difference between that and what the Ninth
Circuit did or what I understand the Ninth Circuit to be
doing, which was to issue an order -- basically say the
substitution motion had to be decided within the broad
discretion that the law allows before entry of judgment.
I'm going -- we're going to do as best we can to put Mr.
Clair back in that position.  It seems to us that since
he -- since counsel said, represented, as soon as it was
asked after his letter, there's an irreconcilable
breakdown and substitution is advised --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, I --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

41

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. WAXMAN:  -- he has counsel and -- I'm
sorry.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No.  I'm trying to
help you.  I understood you to say you had an answer to
Justice Breyer's question.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Yes, I do have an answer to
Justice Breyer's question, if I can just -- thank you.
If I can just finish answering -- I apologize for my
lengthy answers.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Why don't you finish
your answer to Justice Sotomayor and then go back to
Justice Breyer?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Thank you.
            In essence what has happened -- what I
understand the court of appeals to have decided is to
say, look, because we have had substitute counsel for 5
years and the FPD has said it couldn't continue, we're
allowing this to go back and let substitute counsel
convince the judge, if it can, if it chooses to, whether
or not to exercise its considerable discretion in
allowing leave to amend the petition before judgment.
The judge may very well say no, and the case is then
back before us.  But it might say yes.  In other words,
to do what in essence is the prejudice or materiality
inquiry that Judge Taylor would have engaged in if he

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

42

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

found that there was a breakdown.
            I mean, if there's a breakdown and the judge
says the only new evidence is that the moon was in the
fifth house and that doesn't depend on anything, I'm
denying -- or it was a new moon, I'm denying this.
            Justice Breyer, I -- I agree with you that
the Ninth Circuit was struggling to figure out a way to
most efficiently resolve the multiple appeals that were
pending in front of them.  And they understood from the
Rule 60(b) appeal that was also pending and from the
appeal on the denial of substitution that there was this
newly discovered evidence in the State's files, that the
investigator who looked at it thought that it was really
important; and they had no record about what it was or
whether it should have been considered.
            Now, they could have said, well, we're going
to direct the Rule 60(b) judge to grant leave to examine
the physical evidence and analyze it.  And it was an
abuse of discretion of the Rule 60(b) judge not to allow
Mr. Clair at least to make some showing.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  But suppose the --
            MR. WAXMAN:  But the more straightforward
way would have been to say you didn't inquire of
counsel; counsel may have had a very good reason for not
pursuing this; but in the face of a specific allegation

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

43

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

by a willing, percipient witness that there is highly
material evidence in the State's files and the public
defender is refusing to do anything about it, all we
think the Ninth Circuit was holding is --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought -- Mr.
Waxman --
            MR. WAXMAN:  -- it was an abuse of
discretion not to ask.
            I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I thought -- I mean, this
is a case that has been going on for, what, 12 years in
the district court?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Yes.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And I thought that the
basic disagreement between the client and counsel was
counsel said our best shot is going to be to keep you
alive; so, we want to do everything we can to change the
death sentence, and then -- and we don't want to detract
from that by making a claim of actual innocence when
there's -- there'd be a very slim basis for that.  So,
that's the judgment, and it's a strategic judgment that
counsel made:  Our best shot to keep this man alive is
to concentrate on the penalty phase.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Justice Ginsburg, if that
had -- if the judge had inquired of counsel and counsel

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

44

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

had given that reason, that would be something that the
court could evaluate in deciding whether the balancing
test that is required by the interests of justice
standard satisfied his inquiry.  But we don't have
any -- I doubt very much that that is what counsel would
have said.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, if -- the
interests of justice, does that include the available
resources of the Federal Public Defender?  I mean, those
offices are notoriously understaffed.  And here you have
a situation where one lawyer has been representing an
individual for an awful long time, and the defendant
says, I want a new lawyer.  It's obviously going to take
that -- a new lawyer away from their work and put them
in a position of having to get up to speed in a new
case.
            And I just wonder if that's part of this --
I won't call "interests of justice" a standard -- it's
an aspiration.  But does that go into the calculus?
            MR. WAXMAN:  I would think that that -- not
only that goes into the calculus, but all of the, I
would say, well-articulated doctrines that Congress and
this Court have applied essentially establishing
presumptions against reopening long-litigated matters,
whether --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

45

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that gets to
my --
            MR. WAXMAN:  All of those things go into the
interests of justice balancing.  There's no doubt about
it.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Is the -- is the
person in a different position with the new counsel than
he would have been with the old concerning the standards
about reopening things?  In other words, do we say,
well, what would the old counsel have been able to do
with respect to reopening, and say, well, that's all the
new counsel can do?  In other words, new counsel doesn't
allow you to circumvent the various --
            MR. WAXMAN:  Of course.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- restrictions you
just talked about.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Of course not.  The only point
is what -- what Clair was basically saying is:  My
investigator has just found evidence that he believes is
highly exculpatory, physical evidence in the State's
files that was previously represented not to exist.  My
counsel is refusing to do anything about it.  Please
give me somebody, whether it's -- have my counsel do it
or some new counsel, to present this to the judge, just
so the judge can decide --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

46

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And one of the
things --
            MR. WAXMAN:  -- in evaluating these -- the
Brady and the ineffective assistance claim, and if this
is as represented, it could be highly material to those
claims.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  And one of the
things I think the district court would do in that
situation with the same counsel is say, look, this was a
tactical strategic decision of the lawyer; you don't get
to reopen something because of that.  Now, does that
same consideration apply with respect to the substituted
counsel, or does the substituted counsel allow the
defendant to get a leg up on the process and make new
arguments that the old counsel couldn't make?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, I think that in a -- if
substitute counsel -- if there is a remand in this case
and substitute counsel makes a Rule 15 motion, the court
will evaluate that under the broad interests of justice
standard.  I mean, whoever the counsel is has to acquit
his or her professional obligations.
            It may very well have been,
Mr. Chief Justice, that if Judge Taylor had said, look,
I -- please, you know, write to me in 3 days or let's
have a status conference and explain to me what's going

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

47

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

on; I understand you went to see this evidence; why
aren't you -- is it true that you're not pursuing it;
and if so, why not -- that would have completely
acquitted the judge's responsibility.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Mr. Waxman, the State
contends that the interest of justice standard is not
the right one.  Why do you contend that it is?  It
doesn't appear in -- in 3599, even though it did appear
in -- in the previous provision that used to cover these
cases, which is 3006A(c).  You want to carry it over
from 3006A(c) to 3599.  That seems to me a little
strange when they seemingly intentionally omitted it.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, I don't think it's
strange, Justice Scalia, and let me explain at least my
own reaction to this.  3599, the mandatory appointment
requirement, was cleaved from what is now 3006, the
discretionary appointment, where Congress said in the
Controlled Substances Act, look, in death cases, at
trial and in habeas, we're not -- we don't want to leave
it to the court's or the magistrate's discretion whether
or not to appoint.  We are appointing.
            And when it did so -- I mean, it is in
essence a -- a progeny -- I mean, it is -- it is a
cleaving of what was a discretionary obligation.
Congress -- Congress had no need in 3599 to reiterate

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

48

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the language in 3006A(c), which itself is not limited to
appointments under 3006A(c).
            I'm reading from page 95 of the petition
appendix.  The statute says -- I'm sorry.  It's page 93.
That the interests of justice standard says this -- and
I'm -- it's the last sentence on page 93a.  "The United
States magistrate judge or the court may, in the
interests of justice, substitute one appointed counsel
for another at any stage of the proceedings."  It
doesn't say "counsel appointed under the discretionary
authority of 3006."
            It, like the rest of subsection (c) of which
it is a part, is a general rule for duration and
substitution of appointments.  So, even if it were not
true that the sentence itself applied a force, it's, I
think, only consistent with what Congress's manifest
intention in enacting -- what became 3599(e) to permit
that when substitution is requested, that motion be
adjudicated in light of the interests of justice.
            And, indeed, that's what the State told
Judge Taylor the standard was in this very case.  I
mean, look at it this way, Justice Scalia:  Imagine that
a district court -- I realize that the cases will be few
and far between, very few and very far between, where at
a late stage of the proceedings, the court will

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

49

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

interject substitution of counsel over the State's
opposition and over the court's understandable desire to
serve the public interest in efficiently and fairly
adjudicating motions.
            But in the rare case where the district
judge says, gee, I think the public interest -- I think
that the interests of justice really would support
putting somebody else in here, but I can't because it
doesn't fit within one of the three boxes of the tests
that the State ex nihilo has announced in its merits
brief in this Court -- it's just impossible to imagine
that Congress would have wanted a judge to say, gee,
this is one of these one in a million cases where the
interests of justice really requires it, but I can't do
it.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  But the interests of justice
is such an open-ended test.  If that is the test,
doesn't it follow that it will only be in the rarest of
cases that a district judge will have been found -- will
be found to have abused his or her discretion in denying
a substitution request?
            Why does that very broad standard help you
here?
            MR. WAXMAN:  I mean, we don't -- we're not
really arguing about the standard one way or the other.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

50

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

The point -- the only real question in this case is
whether whatever the standard is -- and we think it has
to be something like interests of justice -- a judge in
this particular situation with respect to this
particular set of circumstances, there is -- and my
investigator, a willing percipient witness, has gone to
the police station and found evidence that he believes
may well clear me --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, how does the
fingerprint --
            MR. WAXMAN:  -- it requires at a minimum
that the judge say --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  I know you think there
should be inquiry.
            MR. WAXMAN:  I'm sorry.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  But before your time runs
out, how would the -- how would the fact that there were
fingerprints at the scene that do not match anybody who
was known to be in that house have provided evidence
for -- provided the basis for any claim that could have
established Mr. Clair's innocence at this late -- at
this late date, in the face of the other evidence that
was present in this case, the recorded statements?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, first of all, the other
evidence in this -- the case against Mr. Clair in

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

51

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

essence was the wired statement that he made.  And even
the trial judge in this case said only of that equivocal
statement that it was, quote, "capable of being regarded
as an admission."  Now, we don't disagree with that.
We're not --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Does your argument depend on
a notion that the evidence against the defendant was
weak?  In other words, if there were a great deal of
evidence against the defendant, would you be making the
same argument, that the judge still had a duty to
inquire?  Or are you asking us essentially to make a
determination that this was an iffy case to begin with?
            MR. WAXMAN:  Well, I think the answer -- I
know how frustrating this is, but I think the answer is
to both -- is yes to both scenarios, particularly
because there was no physical evidence linking him, and
really the State's case boiled down to this pretty
confusing statement.  It was particularly salient to say
wait a minute.  I mean, the -- the district judge had no
idea that there was any dispute about physical evidence,
or any physical evidence was in the State's files that
hadn't been disclosed and hadn't been tested.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, suppose defense
counsel had introduced at trial fingerprint evidence
showing that 10 people were present at some point in

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

52

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

that house and they weren't people who lived there.
That's -- it's weak exculpatory evidence for the
defendant at best that there were -- there were unknown
people in the house.  It might have been the cable guy.
Who knows who they were?  So, it doesn't help very much.
            MR. WAXMAN:  Justice Alito, I mean, we're,
of course, all arguing in a vacuum here because we don't
know what the fingerprint evidence, if it were tested
and run against databases, would show.
            But let me give you one not at all
far-fetched example:  The State had -- the county
coroner had determined that because of the extraordinary
similarity between the murder of a woman in the
neighborhood -- very close by the night before and this
one, including the very peculiar puncture injuries, the
coroner's report in the State's file said this is very
likely the same perpetrator.
            The State has identified the perpetrator of
that other crime.  And we don't know whether even at
this day the State has matched that perpetrator's
fingerprints with the fingerprints that were discovered
next to the victim in this case.  And it wouldn't be
far-fetched to say that in a case involving either
Brady -- may I finish?  It will just be this sentence.
Brady or ineffective assistance of counsel, if the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

53

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

fingerprint evidence did link up in that way, it
certainly would go into the habeas judge's evaluation of
the merits of those claims.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Campbell, you have 3 minutes remaining.
          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WARD A. CAMPBELL
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Can you tell us whether
that testing has been done or not?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  No, I don't believe that
testing has been done.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm sorry.  No, you
don't think it has been?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  No, I don't.  I don't.  The
testing has not been done.  The only testing I'm aware
of is the testing that's discussed in the appendix.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  In the appendix.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Yes.  Which excluded Mr. Goh,
who apparently was the perpetrator of the -- of the
other murder, from having any DNA at the scene of the
Rodgers murder.  And Mr. Goh is dead now.  So --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm sorry.  Then your
answer is yes, Mr. Goh's prints don't match the prints
found in the file.
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Let me -- I am not aware --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

54

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the answer is I am not -- there has been no test
comparison of the fingerprints of Mr. Goh, to my -- to
my knowledge, in with the -- what was found at the
Rodgers murder.  The only testing that we have is the
testing that is in the appendix to the opposition to
cert regarding the DNA comparisons that were done.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  That doesn't worry your
prosecutor's office?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I think that the problem that
the -- from the standpoint of the prosecutor's office,
the -- nothing that could be found about this case would
undercut the fact that Mr. Clair --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  If -- if the
fingerprints that were found at the scene of this crime
matched Goh, that wouldn't give you pause?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  It would -- it would
certainly be a -- it would certainly -- I think it would
give them pause.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm sorry.  What?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I think -- I think it would
give them pause, but the fact is the --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, why hasn't the test
been done?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  I don't know why the testing
has not been done.  But whatever the testing would be,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

55

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the fact is Mr. Clair made numerous admissions and
numerous statements implicating himself in the murder of
Linda -- of Ms. Rodgers during the taped conversation he
had with Ms. Flores, which also corroborated
Ms. Flores's testimony about his involvement in that
murder.  And that is the critical -- the critical
evidence in this case.  Now, the California Supreme
Court, which has had this information in front of it,
has also, in fact, denied already a petition based on
the available evidence about the murders.
            I think also if you look --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You -- you don't think it's
an iffy case?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  No, not based on that taped
statement.  The taped statements are filled with implied
-- implied admissions about what he did with the
jewelry, about trying to evade her questions about the
case, to do anything to try to avoid having to really
confront himself directly with involvement in the case.
It's a -- it really is a very damning -- damning tape,
but it --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But it's all -- it's all
that, what -- what he told his girlfriend, right?
There's nothing else.  It's only that?
            MR. CAMPBELL:  Well, I think the point of it

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

56

is that the tape -- she testified, and the tape
corroborates her testimony.  So, in fact, what you have
is you -- you have mutual reinforcement.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 11:03 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

A

abandon 23:7
abandoned 23:6
abandonment

24:13,15
abide 24:6
able 38:1 45:10
above-entitled

1:11 56:7

Absolutely 27:9
abuse 18:25

19:1 21:16,21
21:23 22:5,8,9
27:21 31:24
42:19 43:7
abused 49:20
academic 40:3,5

40:6

accept 4:24 9:10
acceptable

19:10

accepted 4:23
accorded 20:17
account 34:6
accused 37:21
acknowledges

39:25

acquit 46:20
acquitted 47:4
act 21:12 24:17

47:18

acted 20:7 21:5
acting 15:21
action 4:2 5:21

10:24 16:4

actual 11:17,19
22:22 33:2,23
43:19

additional 4:23
4:25 5:17,25
10:21

adjudicated

48:19

adjudicating

31:7 49:4

admission 51:4
admissions 55:1

Official
Official

57

apply 8:11,18

18:20

46:12

appoint 47:21
appointed 6:15

18:7,9 23:1
33:12,13 34:22
48:8,10

appointing

47:21

appointment
15:7 23:21
47:15,17

appointments

48:2,14

approach 34:9
approaching

32:21

appropriate
10:11 14:2
15:11 20:1,2
22:1,18,21
26:7 30:21
32:4,9

appropriately

34:5,6

April 32:15
area 24:24 36:11
areas 18:15,16
argue 28:8
arguing 49:25

52:7

argument 1:12
2:2,5,8 3:3,6
23:24 27:16
28:23,25 29:2
31:2 51:6,10
53:6

arguments 8:6

28:9 46:15

art 25:25
aside 19:19
asked 3:21 14:3

35:6 40:23
asking 39:25

51:11

aspect 19:4

aspiration 44:19
assert 36:19
assistance 16:25

17:22 26:16
29:10 31:7
46:4 52:25

assuming 8:22

9:10 15:10
21:18 39:7

assumptions 9:3
attorney 1:15
12:17 23:24
24:6,20,24
39:10

attorneys 3:19

attorney-client

25:1

14:1

authority 18:19
21:6 24:4 37:1
48:11

automatically

21:23

available 10:22
11:10,16 26:22
31:1 44:8
55:10

avenue 12:4
avoid 55:18
awaiting 14:9
aware 53:15,25
awful 44:12
a.m 1:13 3:2

56:6

B

back 11:13,15
15:25 20:25
27:6 30:19
31:24 35:8
37:5 40:9,21
41:11,18,23
balancing 44:2

45:4

bar 17:4
based 9:3,15
10:25 11:21

55:16

adverse 15:19
adversely 14:13
advised 28:2

40:24

advocate 15:21
affect 14:13
agent 24:17,21
agree 18:21 42:6
ahead 10:15
Alito 5:24 6:4,7
7:2,5 11:2,17
32:12 42:21
49:16 50:9,13
50:16 51:23
52:6

Alito's 35:9,22
alive 43:17,22
allegation 9:20
10:17 15:5,16
36:1 42:25

allegations 9:24

10:12 34:22
35:20

allege 19:11
alleged 27:23

29:9

alleging 31:23
allow 32:6,9
33:7 38:5
42:19 45:13
46:13

allowed 34:7
allowing 41:18

41:21

allows 40:19
altered 29:18
alternative

15:23

amend 27:25
32:10 33:8
37:6,10,18
41:21

amended 36:19

37:8

analogizing

17:20

analogous 16:21
analyze 42:18
announced 4:11
29:12,25 49:10
answer 14:4,18

18:14 29:11
37:17 39:1
41:4,6,11
51:13,14 53:23
54:1

answered 37:17
answering 41:8
answers 14:15

41:9

anybody 23:10

anyway 5:2

50:18

39:10

apologize 31:4

41:8

apparently

53:19

appeal 6:11,13

9:8 12:24
37:20 40:2
42:10,11

appeals 8:11
16:13 18:18
27:20 32:4
41:15 42:8
appear 5:6

21:11 33:10
47:8,8

APPEARAN...

appellate 13:1

1:14

13:21

appendix 7:14
48:4 53:16,17
54:5

applied 9:12

19:14,16 44:23
48:15

Amendment

16:23 17:21,25

applies 9:11
13:12 15:25

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

Official

58

22:9 35:20
55:9,14

basic 23:12 24:3

24:3,4,11
43:15

basically 9:2
15:20 40:17
45:18

basis 5:9 10:14
17:16 22:19
43:20 50:20

beginning 22:25

23:22

behalf 2:4,7,10
3:7 27:17 53:7

believe 38:2

40:9,10 53:10
believes 31:12

45:19 50:7
bench 30:12
best 40:20 43:16

43:22 52:3
better 29:3
beyond 18:20
boiled 51:17
borrowing 21:9
bothering 19:14
boxes 49:9
Brady 11:3
29:10 31:8
33:2 46:4
52:24,25
breakdown
12:17 13:3
40:24 42:1,2
Breyer 18:12
19:7,13,16
20:4,14,21,24
36:14,22 37:14
37:16 38:13,19
38:24 41:12
42:6

Breyer's 27:7

41:5,7

brief 29:18

30:15 49:11
briefing 3:16

4:18,19
briefs 8:5
broad 40:18
46:19 49:22

broke 37:3
broken 9:7 14:1

28:8 29:6

brought 25:10

C

c 2:1 3:1 48:12
cable 52:4
calculus 44:19

44:21

California 1:16
6:25 12:2 55:7
call 19:21 20:3

22:15 25:17,19
25:21 40:3
44:18

calling 19:21
Campbell 1:15
2:3,9 3:5,6,8
4:8,17 5:15 6:3
6:6,9 7:4,8,19
8:8,17 9:16
10:7,10 11:6
11:19 12:10,13
12:22 13:10,16
14:7,21 15:4
15:15 16:3,10
16:14,18,21
17:8,18 19:4,8
19:15,24 20:11
20:19,23 21:7
21:21 22:14
23:11,16,20
24:1,10,16,22
25:15,21,24
26:6,13,19
27:2,9 53:5,6
53:10,14,18,25
54:9,16,20,24
55:14,25

capable 51:3
capital 17:6,13
23:1,1 26:14

26:18

carry 47:10
case 3:4,17 4:3

4:25 5:11
10:17,18,19,20
11:8 14:8,14
14:23 16:12
18:17 20:6
21:3 22:4 23:8
23:19,23 24:11
26:2 28:19
30:18 31:6
32:3 34:12,18
35:2,22 36:12
36:23 37:11,13
39:22 40:13
41:22 43:11
44:16 46:17
48:21 49:5
50:1,23,25
51:2,12,17
52:22,23 54:11
55:7,13,18,19
56:5,6

cases 17:3 21:1
25:8 47:10,18
48:23 49:13,19

categorical

26:21

category 25:6
caused 21:8
cert 54:6
certain 12:14
certainly 12:1

17:10 19:4
53:2 54:17,17
certiorari 7:15
challenges 3:13

23:2

change 20:8
35:16 43:17
Chief 3:3,8 4:5

21:15 27:14,18
28:3,5,21 29:5
29:14,16,22
30:4,7,14,22
30:25 31:15,21

40:25 41:3,10
44:7 45:1,6,15
46:1,7,23 53:4
56:4

choice 17:17
chooses 41:19
chose 26:11
circuit 6:19,24
8:22 9:11 11:7
13:25 21:8
22:3 36:14
37:22 38:6,14
39:8 40:16,16
42:7 43:4

Circuit's 8:19
19:9,25 21:25
circumstances
19:17 21:13
50:5

circumvent

45:13

claim 11:3,13,18

11:20,22,25
12:2,3,4,6
32:24 33:2
36:19 37:9
43:19 46:4
50:20

claiming 27:8
claims 10:23

13:7,18 16:24
16:25 17:21
18:1 31:7
33:22 46:6
53:3

Clair 1:6 3:4,18
3:24 4:3,6,22
5:3 6:10,12,15
6:22 9:19 15:1
19:11 22:20
27:23,24 28:6
32:18 33:4,13
35:21 40:21
42:20 45:18
50:25 54:12
55:1

Clair's 3:10,22

5:5,11,16 7:25
9:19,23,24
10:20 11:12
50:21

clear 4:24 11:20

28:13 31:12
50:8

cleaved 47:16
cleaving 47:24
client 3:24 9:7
23:7,7 24:2,9
24:11,17 25:11
35:11 43:15
clients 25:2,3
close 22:13

52:14

cognizable

10:23 11:22,25

come 9:4
comes 19:3

23:23 35:10
coming 4:14
communication

13:20 14:12
28:8 29:5

communicatio...
9:7 12:17 13:3

comparison

comparisons

54:2

54:6

complain 19:11
complained 4:4
complaint 3:22

5:3,16 15:1
18:25 19:5
20:2 28:11
33:24

complaints

30:18

complete 12:17
completed 5:9
completely 14:9

47:3

complicated

38:15

concentrate

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

59

concentrating

43:23

8:7

concept 17:23
concern 19:23

19:24

concerning 45:8
conclusion 5:9
conduct 10:16

28:11 30:3
conference

46:25

conferring 3:23
confined 21:19
conflict 5:7 13:4

13:4 15:19
23:9 33:11

confront 55:19
confusing 51:18
confusion 20:20

21:7

Congress 16:16

21:12 26:11
44:22 47:17,25
47:25 49:12

Congress's

17:17 48:16
connection 7:7
consider 6:19

33:25 37:7,19
38:16

considerable

consideration

41:20

46:12

considered

16:17 24:23
42:15

considering

39:19

consistent 48:16
constitutional

construction

20:17

17:10

contact 13:20
contend 47:7

contends 47:6
context 16:3
17:8,11,13
18:2,11 21:14

continue 3:24

9:9 37:2 41:17

control 25:2
Controlled

47:18

controls 24:9
convenience
29:20 30:9
conversation

33:5 55:3

conviction 23:2
convince 41:19
coroner 52:12
coroner's 52:16
corpus 3:11 6:23

6:25 10:24
11:23 12:7
16:4 29:9

correct 5:15 6:3
8:16 14:20,21
20:19

corroborated

35:1 55:4

corroborates

56:2

counsel 3:21 5:4
5:5 6:15,16 8:4
8:13 12:11
13:2 15:8,17
15:18,19 16:5
16:24,25 17:1
17:12,12,22,23
18:4,7,9,9
19:12 20:8,18
22:19,22,24
23:1,1,4,6,6,7
23:8 25:9,10
25:12 26:9,16
26:23 27:14,22
27:24 28:1,7
28:19,23,24
29:3,10 31:8
31:13 32:1,6,6

32:9 33:6,8,10
33:12 34:5,8
34:22 35:3,4
36:3 37:2,4,5
38:9 40:2,22
40:25 41:1,16
41:18 42:24,24
43:15,16,22,25
43:25 44:5,7
45:7,10,12,12
45:22,23,24
46:9,13,13,15
46:17,18,20
48:8,10 49:1
51:24 52:25
53:4 56:4

Counsel's 23:9
county 5:20 7:10

52:11

couple 7:22
course 12:23
13:1 21:22
29:7 34:17
39:2,20,24
45:14,17 52:7
court 1:1,12 3:9
3:12,12 4:1,3,4
4:6,10,23 5:4,8
6:17,18,19,20
7:1 8:11,12,24
9:11,14,18
10:13,13,15,25
11:24 12:19
13:7,24 14:17
14:19,24 15:2
15:13 16:13,13
16:22 17:10,20
17:24,25 18:18
20:7 21:18,22
23:4 26:20
27:19,20,23
28:7,18 29:8
31:8 32:4 36:3
36:24 37:6
38:16 39:12
41:15 43:12
44:2,23 46:8

46:18 48:7,23
48:25 49:11
55:8

courts 17:16

26:25

court's 11:21
21:6 47:20
49:2

cover 26:7 47:9
crime 7:11,12
36:2 52:19
54:14

criteria 23:10
critical 55:6,6

D

D 3:1
damning 55:20

55:20

databases 52:9
date 50:22
day 4:11 22:12

30:16,16 52:20
days 7:22 33:20

34:1 46:24
dead 53:21
deadline 4:15,17
deal 25:10 51:8
dealing 33:21
deals 17:25
death 43:18

47:18

December 1:9
decide 30:20
39:12,13,22
45:25

decided 34:24
40:18 41:15
decides 10:2
deciding 20:16

37:22 44:2
decision 4:3,7
4:13 5:1 8:22
12:18 13:15
14:10,18 19:2
19:18 23:23
32:16,22 46:10

Alderson Reporting Company

decisionmaking

24:3

decisions 9:21
22:20 24:4,9
24:11,25 25:1

declarations

4:23,24

declined 31:25
defendant 12:23

17:7 23:3,23
44:12 46:14
51:7,9 52:3
defendants

26:11

defendant's

26:8

defender 3:23
5:19,22 6:12
9:22 10:3
13:24 14:3
43:3 44:9

defenders 10:6,9
defender's 3:20

9:6

defense 34:8
35:4 36:3
51:23

defer 39:2
defined 21:25
definition 24:15
degree 34:10
delay 26:24
deliberate 21:12
demonstrate

32:8

denial 6:13

16:25 17:22
22:22 42:11
denied 6:10,18
6:21 14:5 15:6
18:7 38:8,9
40:11 55:9
deny 27:21

33:11

denying 5:5,10

8:12 42:5,5
49:20

51:6

Deputy 1:15
desire 49:2
determination

51:12

determine 8:25
determined

52:12

detract 43:18
developments

11:11
die 23:3
difference 26:21

35:14 40:15
different 8:5
33:22 45:7
direct 42:17
directing 38:7
direction 14:25
directly 55:19
disagree 51:4
disagreed 9:20
disagreement
11:3 43:15

disagreements
19:11 22:19
disagrees 10:5
disclosed 51:22
discovered

31:11 34:23
37:25 42:12
52:21

discovery 3:14
discretion 14:25
20:8 21:17,18
21:21,23 22:6
22:8,9 27:21
31:24 32:5
40:19 41:20
42:19 43:8
47:20 49:20
discretionary
21:6 47:17,24
48:10

discussed 16:16

32:23 53:16

disposition 8:19

dispute 9:1,5

dissatisfaction

29:19

51:20

3:19

dissatisfied 28:7
district 3:11,12
4:10 5:4,8 6:17
6:18,19,20
8:12,24 9:13
9:18 13:24
14:4,4,17,19
14:24 15:2,12
15:12 16:13
18:14,16 19:2
19:17 20:7
21:6,18 23:4
29:12 34:4,21
35:2 36:17,25
37:6 38:4,7,16
39:12 43:12
46:8 48:23
49:5,19 51:19

divided 16:22
dividing 16:24

17:21

DNA 5:23 7:21
7:25 8:2 35:25
53:20 54:6

doctrines 44:22
doing 5:6 10:1

33:10 40:10,17

domain 24:24
doubt 44:5 45:4
drawn 26:20
duration 48:13
duty 28:16

51:10

D.C 1:8,18
E
E 2:1 3:1,1
earlier 14:18,20
effective 29:13
effectiveness

18:22

efficiently 42:8

Official

49:3

either 17:13
35:14 36:3
52:23

enacting 48:17
enforcement

5:20 7:10
engage 15:3
engaged 41:25
entertain 6:17

12:3

entire 13:5
entitled 15:6
18:3,5 23:4
27:24,25

entitlement 18:4
entry 40:19
equivocal 51:2
error 11:13

18:19 24:14
27:8,11 30:11
especially 12:6

14:8 34:24

ESQ 1:15,18 2:3

2:6,9

essence 37:24

41:14,24 47:23
51:1

essential 13:22
essentially 38:8

44:23 51:11

established

establishing

50:21

44:23

evade 55:17
evaluate 44:2

46:19

evaluating 46:3
evaluation 53:2
event 33:18
evidence 5:14,17
5:20,23,25 7:7
7:9 10:18,19
10:20,22 11:4
11:9 28:22
31:11 32:8,25

60

17:19 18:5
extra 14:22
extraordinary

52:12

F

face 37:15 42:25

50:22

faced 34:4
fact 4:9,21 10:10
10:14,21 11:10
12:2 14:10,17
14:22,23 15:6
16:4,6 17:19
17:23 18:3,8
18:24 21:8
24:7,16,23
29:23,25 30:1
31:17,20 33:13
50:17 54:12,21
55:1,9 56:2
factors 16:1

26:25

facts 9:15 39:22
factual 5:8

11:22

factually 34:21
failed 30:2,9

34:22

failure 9:2 11:15

24:6,7,16,20

fair 32:14 33:14
fairly 49:3
familiar 12:8

17:24

far 14:23,24

17:20 48:24,24
far-fetched 33:3

52:11,23

faulting 30:19
Federal 3:10,11

3:12,20,22
5:19,22 6:12
9:6,18,22 10:3
10:6,9,23
11:23 12:7
16:4 44:9

34:23,25 35:16
35:24 36:20
37:8,25 38:11
38:17 42:3,12
42:18 43:2
45:19,20 47:1
50:7,19,22,25
51:7,9,16,20
51:21,24 52:2
52:8 53:1 55:7
55:10

evidentiary 3:15
ex 49:10
exactly 8:25

examine 38:1

36:8

42:17

examined 5:18
example 22:25

26:1 52:11
excellent 5:8
excluded 53:18
exculpatory
45:20 52:2
Excuse 13:10
executed 25:17

exercise 40:3

25:23

41:20

exercising 14:25
exhausted 12:1

13:6

exist 45:21
existed 39:23
expected 4:13

15:18

explain 36:8
46:25 47:14
explanation
10:5,9 30:2
39:10,15

explicated 34:25
expressing 3:18
extensions 4:19
extensive 3:16

5:10

extent 7:20 14:2

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

61

Goh 53:18,21

54:2,15

Goh's 53:23
going 4:13 13:9
13:12,14 14:12
17:4 20:7
22:12 28:24
29:3,23,25
32:21 33:11,13
35:16,22 38:4
40:20,20 42:16
43:11,16 44:13
46:25

good 10:1 19:1

29:2 42:24
gotten 39:9
grant 21:19

42:17

granted 39:14
gravamen 33:24
great 28:23 51:8
greater 26:15,15
Grele 38:9
guess 26:19 35:8

40:12,14

guilt 3:13 10:21
guy 52:4
H

habeas 3:10

6:23,25 10:23
11:23 12:7,25
13:13,14 16:4
17:9,13 26:15
29:9 47:19
53:2

happen 28:15

34:7

happened 6:5,8
7:6 8:24 18:25
34:7 37:18
39:21 40:8
41:14

happens 25:8
hear 3:3
heard 6:20 32:7

39:15

hearing 3:15

4:19 8:25 9:4
10:16

hears 10:3
held 11:25 27:20
help 41:4 49:22

52:5

Henriksen

36:13

high 34:10
higher 17:4
highly 43:1
45:20 46:5

hold 8:25 27:23

27:25 28:1
holding 43:4
Honor 4:8 5:15

8:17 10:10
12:22 13:16
17:18 19:24
20:20 22:14
23:17 26:6
27:12 31:9
horrendous
18:17,19
house 42:4

50:19 52:1,4

huge 40:15

I
idea 51:20
identical 36:11
identified 52:18
iffy 51:12 55:13
imagine 48:22

49:11

implicate 12:20
implicating 55:2
implied 55:15

55:16

import 34:25
important 19:6
19:7,8 42:14

impossible

49:11

impression 31:5
improperly 9:12

inadequate

inappropriate

include 37:8

12:18

21:14

44:8

including 19:21

36:10 39:13
52:15

incorrect 8:20
incredible 32:13
incriminating

independent

33:4

28:16

indicated 5:16

5:18 11:24

individual 44:12
ineffective 16:25

17:22 29:9
31:7 46:4
52:25

inference 4:12
information
7:13 55:8
initial 4:17
initiate 10:16
injuries 52:15
innocence 11:18
11:19,22 33:2
33:23 43:19
50:21

innocent 31:10
innuendo 31:2,5
inquire 9:14
28:18 42:23
51:11

inquired 43:25
inquiries 22:10
inquiry 9:15

10:16,25 14:20
15:3,13,13,15
15:15 16:16
22:2 27:22
28:4,11,17
30:3 33:15
34:12,16,19

forward 33:14
found 8:2 42:1

45:19 49:19,20
50:7 53:24
54:3,11,14
FPD 41:17
frankly 31:2
frequently 25:9
friend 35:23
front 3:12 42:9

55:8

51:14

further 4:2 5:21
10:17,24 33:15
35:15

G

G 3:1
gee 49:6,12
general 1:16

48:13

germane 34:23
Ginsburg 4:15

5:12 13:23
16:19 43:5,9
43:10,14,24
55:22

girlfriend 55:23
give 22:24 26:11

38:1 45:23
52:10 54:15,18
54:21

given 14:3,8

18:3 26:1 44:1

gives 17:5
giving 15:25
go 10:15 20:6,25

27:6 30:19
31:21,22 32:24
36:23 37:5
39:4 41:11,18
44:19 45:3
53:2

goes 20:1 30:17
31:19,20 35:8
44:21

files 31:12 42:12

frustrating

feeling 21:24
fewer 29:17
fifth 42:4
figure 20:24
29:2 42:7

file 37:12,12,23

52:16 53:24

filed 6:11,11,12

6:16,22,24
24:5,5 37:18
37:23,23

43:2 45:21
51:21

filing 4:18
filled 55:15
final 37:11
find 38:11
finding 5:5
10:14 38:8

fine 19:18
fingerprint

50:10 51:24
52:8 53:1
fingerprints
36:1 50:18
52:21,21 54:2
54:14

finish 41:8,10

52:24

first 3:4 12:7
23:23 25:11
29:8,11 50:24

fit 49:9
fixed 18:10,12
Flores 55:4
Flores's 55:5
focus 8:6 36:18
follow 13:14
24:20 49:18

force 48:15
Ford 35:20 36:7
foreclosed 40:10
forensic 11:9,12
forget 9:13
forth 7:13 9:15
forums 13:19

Alderson Reporting Company

41:25 44:4
50:14

inserted 21:11
inserting 21:10
instruction 24:7
intention 48:17
intentionally

47:12

interest 5:7 13:4
15:11,19,23,24
16:2,6 18:23
23:9 33:11
47:6 49:3,6

interests 8:15,22

9:11 12:19
16:6,7 17:11
17:17 18:10
19:21 21:9
22:13,16 26:2
27:1,7 44:3,8
44:18 45:4
46:19 48:5,8
48:19 49:7,14
49:16 50:3
interject 49:1
introduced

51:24

investigate
35:12,13

investigated

5:18

investigation
10:25 35:16
investigative
9:21 22:20
24:25

investigator
5:13 31:11
35:2 37:25
42:13 45:19
50:6

invoked 8:23
involvement

55:5,19

involving 52:23
irreconcilable

13:4 40:23

Official

62

isolation 34:1
issue 4:3,6 22:7
25:13,15 32:21
34:24 35:15,17
40:17

issued 4:4 5:4
33:21 34:1
38:6

issues 25:11

J

jewelry 55:17
job 5:6 10:1

33:10

judge 3:12,14,18
3:21 4:10 10:2
14:4,5 17:5,6
18:14,16 19:2
19:17 22:3,6
29:12,18 30:15
30:20,23 31:1
31:25 32:2,6,7
32:14,20,20
34:4,21 35:2,5
35:6,6,9,13,17
35:19 36:7,17
36:17,25 37:6
37:16 38:4,7
39:18,18,25
40:4,6,6 41:19
41:22,25 42:2
42:17,19 43:25
45:24,25 46:23
48:7,21 49:6
49:12,19 50:3
50:12 51:2,10
51:19

judges 9:14
judge's 34:19

47:4 53:2

judgment 37:11

38:3 40:19
41:21 43:21,21

judicial 30:8
juncture 13:18

13:22

June 4:12,14 5:2

5:2 9:19 14:25
29:13 32:17,17
35:5

jurisprudence
11:21 16:23

justice 3:3,8 4:5

4:15 5:12,24
6:4,7 7:2,5,17
8:4,9,15,21,23
9:11,25 10:8
11:2,17 12:8
12:11,14,19
13:8,11,23
14:15 15:2,9
15:10,11,22,24
15:25 16:2,6,8
16:11,15,19
17:2,11,15,17
18:10,12,23
19:7,13,16,21
20:4,12,14,15
20:21,24 21:10
21:15 22:5,13
22:16,24 23:13
23:18,22 24:8
24:13,19 25:13
25:19,22 26:1
26:2,10,17,24
27:1,6,7,8,14
27:18 28:3,4,5
28:21 29:5,14
29:16,22 30:4
30:7,14,22,25
31:14,15,21
32:11,12 33:19
34:11,15,18
35:8,9,22
36:14,22 37:14
37:16 38:13,19
38:23,24 39:4
39:7,17,21
40:5,8,13,25
41:3,5,7,10,11
41:12 42:6,21
43:5,9,10,14
43:24 44:3,7,8
44:18 45:1,4,6

45:15 46:1,7
46:19,23 47:5
47:6,14 48:5,8
48:19,22 49:7
49:14,16,16
50:3,9,13,16
51:6,23 52:6
53:4,8,12,17
53:22 54:7,13
54:19,22 55:12
55:22 56:4

K

KAGAN 14:15
15:2,9,22 28:4
31:14 32:11
34:11,15,18
35:8 51:6

keep 43:16,22
KENNEDY
22:5 33:19

KENNETH 1:6
kind 15:3,13
19:20 25:7
36:19

kinds 28:14
knew 4:6
know 9:5 22:3
22:11 23:14
27:2 31:10
33:17,19 34:20
35:20 37:2,7
38:25 46:24
50:13 51:14
52:8,19 54:24
knowledge 54:3
known 50:19
knows 35:14

52:5

L

language 48:1
last-minute

28:15

late 34:5 48:25

50:21,22

Laughter 23:15

Alderson Reporting Company

law 5:20 7:10
21:22 22:3
38:21 40:19
lawyer 24:17
44:11,13,14
46:10

lawyers 35:12

35:13

lead 32:24
leads 24:20
leave 37:23 38:2

41:21 42:17
47:19
leg 46:14
legal 29:19
legitimate 18:8
lengthy 41:9
lesser 26:18
letter 3:18 31:8
32:18,22 33:24
33:25 35:21,21
35:24 40:23
letters 28:14

32:24

let's 7:23 46:24
level 13:21 20:2

24:2

light 33:3 48:19
limitation 17:5,6
limited 12:15

36:5 48:1
Linda 55:3
line 16:24
link 53:1
linking 51:16
literally 20:21
litigated 3:11

13:19

litigation 5:25
6:8,10 14:11
22:25 25:7,7

little 47:11
lived 52:1
located 36:1
long 17:20 32:20

33:9 44:12
longer 15:20

Official

63

long-litigated

32:3

44:24

look 20:5 21:4

26:25 29:1
37:24 41:16
46:9,23 47:18
48:22 55:11
looked 42:13
looking 9:17

18:2

lose 36:23
lot 18:15
M

made-up 16:9
magistrate 48:7
magistrate's

47:20

mail 36:5
maintained

31:10

making 8:5

27:21 43:19
51:9

man 43:22
mandamus 38:6
mandatory

47:15

manifest 48:16
March 28:18

35:5,6

Martel 1:3 3:4
match 50:18

matched 52:20

53:23

54:15

matching 7:21

7:24 8:1

material 35:17

43:2 46:5
materiality

41:24

materials 36:4
matter 1:11

18:18 21:22
22:3 25:5 27:3

29:19 56:7
matters 9:3

32:23 44:24

mean 10:1 14:22
18:13,24 20:21
21:23 22:6
31:5 34:14
39:24 42:2
43:10 44:9
46:20 47:22,23
48:22 49:24
51:19 52:6

meaning 18:11
18:13 21:13
39:17

meaningful 21:3
means 8:14

17:11

meet 15:17
mention 29:17
merged 6:14
merits 49:10

53:3

met 5:19 15:18
MICHAEL 1:3
million 49:13
mind 30:2 35:17
mine 28:16
minimal 30:3
minimum 9:14

50:11

minute 51:19
minutes 53:5
mistake 18:17
months 4:2
14:18,20

moon 42:3,5
morning 3:4
motion 6:14,18
6:20,21 8:12
14:5 17:7,7
19:10 21:19
22:1 27:3
35:18 37:12,24
38:5,7,8,16
39:14 40:9,11
40:18 46:18

48:18

motions 49:4
move 22:18
multiple 13:19

13:19 42:8

murder 7:22,23

7:25 8:1,3,3
36:11 52:13
53:20,21 54:4
55:2,6

murders 55:10
mutual 56:3

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
necessarily 25:2
necessary 10:15

13:22

need 10:24

13:20 33:15
47:25

neighborhood

52:14

never 10:5,8

11:24 17:9,10
39:18

new 5:13 6:15
6:16 18:9,9
28:22,24 32:5
32:6,6,7 35:24
36:19 37:4,5
37:25 38:17
39:10,17,18
40:6 42:3,5
44:13,14,15
45:7,12,12,24
46:14

newly 34:23

night 36:11

42:12

52:14

nihilo 49:10
Ninth 6:19,24
8:19,22 11:7
13:25 19:9,25
21:8,24 22:3
36:14 37:22

38:6,14 39:8
40:15,16 42:7
43:4

noncapital 17:3
17:9,13 26:11
26:14

normal 25:24

39:11

normally 21:5
24:23 25:1,8
notice 6:11,11

6:13 28:6
notion 51:7
notoriously

44:10

numerous 55:1

55:2

O
O 2:1 3:1
oath 30:8
obligation 28:10

28:13 33:2,7
35:3 47:24
obligations

obviously 34:9

46:21

44:13

occur 15:16
occurred 7:12

7:22 11:13

occurring 14:11
occurs 13:21
office 3:20 54:8

54:10

offices 44:10
oh 13:8 22:7
27:9 34:3

okay 8:8 18:21

36:23

old 45:8,10

46:15

omitted 47:12
once 5:2 6:10

27:2

ones 29:3
open-ended

Alderson Reporting Company

order 4:4 5:5,10

ordered 4:25

7:10

40:17

6:19

49:17

operates 22:6
operating 37:1
opinion 11:7
19:9,25 21:8
21:25 22:7
33:21 34:1
35:15

opposition 7:14

49:2 54:5

oral 1:11 2:2,5

3:6 27:16
Orange 5:19

outcome 7:18,19
oversaw 3:14

P

P 1:18 2:6 3:1

page 2:2 48:3,4

27:16

48:6

part 10:25 34:19

44:17 48:13

participate

12:12

particular 18:6

21:20 24:7
25:11 28:9,9
35:12 50:4,5

particularly

12:25 51:15,18
pause 54:15,18

54:21

peculiar 52:15
penalty 3:14

43:23

pending 29:8
32:19 33:9
37:21 42:9,10

people 22:9

36:10 51:25
52:1,4

Official

64

percipient 35:1

43:1 50:6
period 33:9
permit 48:17
permitted 34:9
perpetrator 8:2
52:17,18 53:19

perpetrator's

52:20

person 34:16

personal 29:20

45:7

30:8

petition 3:11,13

5:10,12 6:10
6:22,23,24,25
7:14 12:7 24:5
27:25 29:9
32:10,19 33:8
36:18 37:7,11
37:19 41:21
48:3 55:9

petitioner 1:4,17

2:4,10 3:7
10:12 13:13
15:5 53:7
petitioners

26:15

phase 43:23
phrase 21:9
physical 5:17,25
10:18,21 11:4
11:8 31:11
32:25 35:24
36:20 37:8
38:17 42:18
45:20 51:16,20
51:21

pivotal 14:23
place 32:2
plan 28:8
please 3:9 27:19

35:4 38:1
45:22 46:24

plenty 12:5
point 3:25 4:9
9:8 12:6,23

13:17 14:8,10
14:12 15:20
16:11,15 24:18
27:7 29:18
31:16,17 32:19
32:21 35:23
45:17 50:1
51:25 55:25

police 50:7
posited 26:4
positing 15:24
position 3:22 9:6

12:16 22:11
40:21 44:15
45:7

possible 11:2
post-evidentia...

4:18

post-habeas

12:18

potential 13:3
34:24 36:12
power 9:12,13
18:15 19:19
practical 25:5

36:16

practice 25:17
prejudice 11:14

41:24

premise 19:9,25
premises 9:24
prepared 36:8
present 28:9
45:24 50:23
51:25

presentation

8:10

presented 9:17

11:1 34:21
presided 3:15
presumably

32:20

presume 8:13
presuming 13:8

presumptions

13:11

44:24

pretty 32:12

51:17

previous 47:9
previously 30:6

36:2 45:21
prints 36:8
53:23,23
Prior 31:6
probably 4:12

18:19

probative 36:5
problem 14:12
24:14 32:15
54:9

proceed 5:1
proceeding

11:23

proceedings

12:12,20 48:9
48:25

process 9:1

10:17 12:7,25
13:1,5 46:14
processes 33:17

professional

33:20

46:21

progeny 47:23
promptly 27:4
proper 5:6

33:10

proposing 8:15
proposition 31:6

32:1

prosecute 23:8
prosecuted

10:20

prosecutor's

54:8,10

protect 18:5
protecting 26:8
protective 6:22
proven 38:10
provide 12:3
provided 22:22

50:19,20

provision 47:9

public 3:20,22
5:19,22 6:12
9:22 13:24
14:3 43:2 44:9
49:3,6

puncture 52:15
purposes 26:22
pursue 25:16

pursuing 42:25

34:22

47:2

put 40:20 44:14
putting 49:8

Q

qualification

23:12

qualifications
15:18 23:11
qualified 15:8

23:16

question 29:12
35:9,23 36:18
39:2 41:5,7
50:1

questions 14:16

17:21 27:13
39:3 55:17

quite 33:3
quote 51:3
R

R 3:1
raise 12:6 23:2
28:24,24 29:3

raised 3:13

13:18

rare 49:5
rarest 49:18
reached 13:17

15:20

reaction 47:15
read 8:4,21
reading 32:14

33:14 48:3
ready 35:15
real 50:1

realize 48:23
really 8:7 10:5

11:24 18:11,17
18:18 19:1,22
20:5 42:13
49:7,14,25
51:17 55:18,20

reason 9:16,23

15:17 18:8
39:9 42:24
44:1

reasons 9:15

12:5

REBUTTAL

2:8 53:6

recall 32:15
received 3:15

9:18 15:1

receives 31:8
record 9:17

10:11,12 20:5
21:4 42:14

recorded 50:23
referring 7:2
reflect 18:24
refusing 43:3

45:22

regarded 51:3
regarding 5:22

5:25 16:23
54:6

regardless 8:10
regards 7:11
reinforcement

56:3

reiterate 47:25
reject 35:18
related 33:23

relations 35:11

35:25

37:3

relationship

7:11,12 14:1

relevance 31:17
reluctant 21:2
relying 14:16
remaining 53:5

Alderson Reporting Company

remains 25:12
remand 13:13

32:5 39:12
46:17

remedies 25:16
remedy 9:13

30:18,19 31:19
31:22 39:5
remember

37:17

remind 7:18
reopen 46:11
reopening 38:3
44:24 45:9,11

replaced 3:21
report 5:13

52:16

37:2

represent 33:13

representation

14:14 15:7
26:23 32:16
represented
18:4 35:24
36:2 40:22
45:21 46:5
representing
15:21 23:9
25:10 44:11
request 5:5 6:2
6:17 9:19 34:4
34:9 49:21

requested 3:20

48:18

requests 28:14
required 15:3
28:2 32:13
34:18 44:3
requirement

47:16

requires 12:11
49:14 50:11
resolve 42:8
resources 44:9
respect 45:11
46:12 50:4
respond 35:4

responded 3:23
Respondent

1:19 2:7 27:17

response 35:7

35:10

responses 24:1
responsibility

47:4

rest 48:12
restrictions

45:15

retire 29:23 30:1

30:1

retired 30:16
retiring 4:11

29:13 30:10,15
31:18

revealed 11:5
review 8:11

21:16

right 8:21 16:5

16:23 17:4
18:5,6,7 19:13
19:22 20:4,17
20:18 22:25
23:14 26:4,5,8
26:16 34:13,14
36:20 37:4
38:20 40:12
47:7 55:23
rightly 14:5
rights 26:18,22

37:22

ROBERTS 3:3

4:5 21:15
27:14 28:3,5
28:21 29:5,14
29:16,22 30:4
30:7,14,22,25
31:15,21 40:25
41:3,10 44:7
45:1,6,15 46:1
46:7 53:4 56:4

Rodgers 7:23
8:1,3 53:21
54:4 55:3

routinely 26:25

Official

rule 6:16,16,18
6:20,21 28:20
32:10 37:12,23
37:23 38:7
42:10,17,19
46:18 48:13
run 28:16 52:9
runs 50:16

S
S 2:1 3:1
Sacramento

1:16

salient 51:18
sat 37:22
satisfied 44:4
saw 32:22
saying 9:2,12
20:8 26:17
30:5,7 34:13
37:1 45:18

says 11:7 23:3
23:23 25:16
28:21,22 31:9
35:9 42:3
44:13 48:4,5
49:6

Scalia 20:12,15

25:13,19,22
47:5,14 48:22
55:12

scenarios 51:15
scene 7:25 36:2

50:18 53:20
54:14

scope 19:20 39:5
search 20:25
second 5:3 25:10

section 21:10

31:9

22:23

see 7:21,23 21:4
32:22 36:15,15
36:16 38:21
47:1

seek 28:2
seeking 5:22

65

49:8

soon 40:22
sorry 6:6,7 7:17

10:7 31:9,16
41:2 43:9 48:4
50:15 53:12,22
54:19
sort 16:8
Sotomayor 7:17
8:4,9,21 9:25
10:8 12:8,11
12:14 13:8,11
15:10 16:8,11
16:15 17:2,15
22:24 23:13,18
23:22 24:8,13
24:19 26:1,10
26:17,24 27:6
38:23 39:4,7
39:17,21 40:5
40:8,13 41:11
53:8,12,17,22
54:7,13,19,22
specific 27:22
29:10 35:25
42:25

specifically

34:25

speed 44:15
stage 34:5 48:9

48:25

standard 8:11
8:14,16,18,23
9:11 13:2
15:12,24,25
16:2,7,9,12
17:15 18:10,20
19:20 20:1
21:1,16,20
22:8,16,21
23:12 26:3,5,7
27:1,3,8,10
44:4,18 46:20
47:6 48:5,21
49:22,25 50:2
standards 22:10

45:8

38:11

seemingly 47:12
sees 18:18
send 31:24
sent 3:18 5:3

32:18

sentence 23:2

43:18 48:6,15
52:24

separate 25:6
serious 17:4
serve 49:3
set 4:15,18 7:13

9:14 19:19
50:5

Seth 1:18 2:6
23:14 27:16
shot 43:16,22
show 11:14
38:12 52:9

showing 42:20

51:25

sides 3:21
significance

29:23,24 30:1

similar 17:24
similarity 52:13
simply 10:22

14:9 18:2
25:17 28:17
31:6 32:7 35:3
37:21
site 8:3
sitting 23:14
situation 25:5,6

27:23 29:8
44:11 46:9
50:4

situations 13:12

26:3

six 29:17 30:15
Sixth 16:23
17:21,25
skepticism

34:10

slim 43:20
somebody 45:23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

66

standpoint

10:19 54:10
started 21:9
State 12:3,24,25
13:1,1,6,7,21
35:3 39:25
47:5 48:20
49:10 52:11,18
52:20

stated 4:1
statement 51:1,3

51:18 55:15

statements 33:4
50:23 55:2,15

States 1:1,12

48:7

State's 31:12
42:12 43:2
45:20 49:1
51:17,21 52:16

station 50:7
status 6:9 46:25
statute 15:8 17:5

48:4

statutory 16:5

17:12 18:4
26:8

stay 20:13
stayed 30:12
steps 39:12
stopped 39:18
straightforward

42:22

strange 47:12,14
strategic 9:21
43:21 46:10

strikes 31:1
strong 34:10
struggling 42:7
subject 11:9
submission 3:17

4:22 14:9
submissions

4:16,25

submit 27:10
submitted 56:5

56:7

submitting

17:23

subsection

subsequent

48:12

12:12

subsequently

4:21 37:3

substance 22:15

Substances

22:16

47:18

substitute 8:13

12:21 17:7
23:4,24 27:24
28:1 32:1 34:4
38:9 40:11
41:16,18 46:17
46:18 48:8

substituted 25:9

33:6,8 40:2
46:12,13

substitution 6:2

6:14 10:14
13:2 14:2,6
17:12 19:10
22:2,17,18
26:4 27:3,21
30:20 39:14
40:1,18,24
42:11 48:14,18
49:1,21

substitutions

28:15

successor 6:23
succinctly 7:24
sufficient 10:13
suggest 34:11
suggesting 17:3

26:10

superintended

superseding

Supervising

32:3

39:2

1:15

support 11:13

38:2 49:7

supported 10:23

34:21

suppose 13:23

13:23 14:3
21:15,17 22:15
35:9 36:23,23
36:24 42:21
51:23

supposed 20:9
Supreme 1:1,12
7:1 28:7 55:7
sure 4:9 40:14
suspect 18:13

23:18

suspected 36:10
suspects 36:12

T

T 2:1,1
tactical 9:21
22:19 24:25
46:10

take 4:1 11:7
39:13 44:13

taken 5:21 40:2
takes 34:6
talked 45:16
talking 25:7,14
tape 55:20 56:1

taped 55:3,14,15
tape-recorded

56:1

33:5

Taylor 32:14
41:25 46:23
48:21

team 3:19
technically 40:3
techniques

11:12

tell 6:4,7 9:10

21:2 22:9
24:19 25:4
36:25 53:8
term 25:25
terms 22:1

26:21

terrible 35:11
test 15:23 16:16

23:25 38:1
44:3 49:17,17
54:1,22

tested 11:4 33:1

36:9 51:22
52:8

testified 56:1
testimony 55:5

56:2

testing 5:22,23
5:23 7:6,9,18
7:20,20 11:9
11:15 35:25
53:9,11,15,15
53:16 54:4,5
54:24,25
tests 49:9
thank 27:14

41:7,13 53:4
56:4

theory 23:5
thing 24:6 35:12

35:13 37:19
39:11

things 36:6

40:11 45:3,9
46:2,8

think 4:8 7:13

8:5,18,18 10:1
10:3,4 11:6,20
13:12 14:18,23
16:1,3 17:19
17:19 18:13,14
18:24 19:17
20:20 21:2,5,7
21:13,16 24:3
26:6,14,14,19
26:20,20 28:12
28:22 31:2
33:7 34:3,20
36:15 37:16
38:24 43:4
44:20 46:8,16
47:13 48:16

49:6,6 50:2,13
51:13,14 53:13
54:9,17,20,20
55:11,12,25
thinking 19:22
third 23:10
thought 9:8
15:22 32:9
33:17,20 42:13
43:5,10,14

three 4:2 16:1

49:9

time 4:20 6:1
7:10,13 9:18
11:1,4,5,21
13:5,17 28:15
31:9 32:17,20
33:1,9 39:23
44:12 50:16

timely 40:9
times 13:19

29:17 30:15

told 28:23 48:20

55:23

total 13:3
trial 11:5,12,13
12:24 13:1,6
13:21 29:10
33:1 36:3
47:19 51:2,24

trigger 22:2
true 47:2 48:15
truly 24:17
truth 36:25
try 36:17 55:18
trying 20:9,24

31:15,16 36:15
36:22 38:14,15
41:3 55:17
Tuesday 1:9
turned 5:14

28:22

two 8:5 28:18
type 12:3,4,14

13:20 24:5
36:11

types 24:25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

67

U

Uh-huh 39:6
undercut 54:12
understaffed

44:10

understand 4:10

14:15 40:16
41:15 47:1

understandable

understood 41:4

49:2

42:9

12:2

48:6

undoubtedly

23:16

unexhausted

United 1:1,12

unjustified 31:3
unknown 52:3
unsuccessful 6:1
untrue 36:6
unusable 36:4
upset 5:21
use 18:22 20:7
20:13,16,22
21:1 27:4
usually 25:9
U.S 36:4
U.S.C 32:5
V
v 1:5 3:4
vacuum 22:7

52:7

value 36:5
various 45:13
victim 52:22
view 38:14
viewed 35:2
vindicate 18:6
violated 30:8
violations 29:11
volunteer 25:4,5
25:13,15,18,20
25:21,22

Volunteering

25:22

W
wait 51:19
want 8:6 11:16
19:20 20:2,5
20:10,12,13,15
20:25 22:15
23:3,7 25:16
25:17 28:10,13
28:24 29:14,16
35:13 36:16
43:17,18 44:13
47:10,19

wanted 49:12
wants 23:1,8
35:11 39:13

WARD 1:15 2:3

2:9 3:6 53:6
WARDEN 1:3
Washington 1:8

1:18

wasn't 4:16
11:15 14:3
40:6

Waxman 1:18

2:6 23:14
27:15,16,18
28:12 29:4,7
29:15,21,24
30:6,11,17,24
31:4,14,19,23
32:11 33:16,20
34:3,11,14,17
34:20 35:19
36:21 37:10,15
37:20 38:18
39:1,6,16,20
39:24 40:7,12
40:14 41:1,6
41:13 42:22
43:6,7,13,24
44:20 45:3,14
45:17 46:3,16
47:5,13 49:24
50:11,15,24
51:13 52:6

way 4:5,9 10:19
14:13 16:17,22
19:14 21:25
29:11 32:23
35:14 38:15,20
42:7,23 48:22
49:25 53:1

weak 51:8 52:2
week 28:6
well-articulated

44:22

went 10:18
18:20 47:1
weren't 52:1
We'll 3:3
we're 14:10

15:10 17:8,23
18:2 25:7
40:20 41:17
42:16 47:19
49:24 51:5
52:6

whatsoever

28:13

willing 3:24 35:1

43:1 50:6
win 13:9,12
wins 13:13
wired 51:1
witness 35:1
43:1 50:6

witnesses 32:8
woman 52:13
wonder 44:17
words 18:22,23
20:6,13,16,16
20:22 21:1
38:14 41:23
45:9,12 51:8

work 5:10 44:14
worked 38:15
world 15:11
worry 54:7
wouldn't 10:22

11:20 12:1
18:13 23:20
26:5 37:21

3 2:4 46:24 53:5
30th 4:12 29:13

32:17

3006 47:16

48:11

3006A(c) 47:10
47:11 48:1,2

3599 12:20
13:12 15:7
22:23 47:8,11
47:15,25

3599(e) 12:9

48:17
39 3:13

4
47 33:22
5

5 32:2 41:16
53 2:10

6

6 1:9
60 33:21 37:23
60(b) 6:18,20,21

37:12,18,24
42:10,17,19
61-page 33:21

34:1

9

93 48:4
93a 48:6
95 48:3

52:22 54:15
wrecks 18:17
writ 6:23,25
write 46:24
writing 31:9
written 4:4 5:4
wrong 8:13,14

8:15 21:22
22:4

X

x 1:2,7

Y

years 3:10,14
16:22 30:13
32:2,3 41:17
43:11

1

10 30:13 51:25
10-1265 1:5 3:4
10:03 1:13 3:2
11:03 56:6
12 3:10 32:3

43:11
14 33:20
15 46:18
15(a)(2) 32:10
16 34:1
16th 5:2 32:17

33:24

1987 11:10,12

11:14,15
2
2 14:18,20
2-day 3:15
2005 4:12,14,22

5:3 9:19
2011 1:9
2106 32:5
27 2:7
27th 29:13
28 32:5
29th 32:15
3

Alderson Reporting Company

