Official

1

       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA)    :
LLC, ET AL.,                      :
            Petitioners           :  No. 10-1261
       v.                         :
VANESSA SIMMONDS                  :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Tuesday, November 29, 2011

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
   Petitioners.
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
   General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
   the United States, as amicus curiae.
JEFFREY I. TILDEN, ESQ., Seattle, Washington; for
   Respondent.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

2

                     C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ.
   On behalf the United States, as amicus curiae    21
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
JEFFREY I. TILDEN, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondent                      32
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     48

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

3

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                          (11:04 a.m.)
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  We'll hear argument next in
Case Number 10-1261, Credit Suisse Securities v.
Simmonds.
            Mr. Landau, you may proceed.
           ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LANDAU
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. LANDAU:  Justice Scalia, and may it
please the Court:
            In section 16(b) of the 1934 Exchange Act,
Congress created a cause of action to allow securities
issuers to recover short-swing profits from certain
covered persons, but specified that a lawsuit must be
brought 2 years after the date the short-swing profit
was realized.  The statute doesn't say 2 years after the
date the defendants filed a section 16(a) report, as the
Ninth Circuit and Respondents would like to have it.
Nor does the statute say 2 years after the date the
plaintiff discovers the short-swing transaction, as the
Government would like to rewrite it.
            I'd like to make two basic points here
today:  First, as this Court recognized in Lampf, the
2-year time limit in section 16(b) is best read as a
period of repose that can't be extended at all; and,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

4

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

second, even if section 16(b)'s 2-year time limit could
be extended, the doctrine of equitable tolling wouldn't
apply to extend the time limit here, where the plaintiff
didn't act diligently to bring a claim and didn't prove
that any extraordinary circumstances precluded her from
filing.  The upshot of these two points is that this
Court should reverse the Ninth Circuit's decision and
remand the case with directions to dismiss the complaint
as untimely.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  On your first --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, would --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  On your first point, you
cite Lampf, but Lampf had two limits.  So, it said --
what was it, 1 year from whatever, from discovery.  And
then it set an outer limit at 3 years, and it was the
same thing in Merck.  Here we just say -- it just has
what seems to me a plain vanilla statute of limitations
that is traditionally subject to waiver, equitable
tolling.  We don't have that special kind of statute
that gives you one limit and then sets a further limit
that will be the outer limit.
            MR. LANDAU:  Your Honor, with respect, it's
certainly true that a two-pronged time limit underscores
that the outer prong is a period of repose, but there's
certainly no magic words that Congress has to use.  It

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

5

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

doesn't have to use a two-pronged time limit to
establish the outer limit as a period of repose.  In
fact, that's really the lesson of this Court's decision
in TRW and in Beggerly and Brockamp, that the -- the
background or the default rule, the background rule that
equitable tolling applies, isn't some kind -- is just
that.  It's a background rule.  And Congress, in the
text or structure --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But what takes you out of
that background rule in this case?  You don't have the
two-pronged structure, which really did, as Justice
Ginsburg said, drive the analysis when we -- when we
talked about those provisions.  So, that's not there.
So, what takes you out of the default position, which is
equitable tolling applies?
            MR. LANDAU:  Sure, Your Honor.  I think --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  On the statute of
limitations --
            MR. LANDAU:  The key point, Your Honor, is
that this Congress in the 1934 Exchange Act was
carefully attuned to the issue of time limits.
Congress -- there was -- there was a lot of discussion
of this.  This is a not a situation where Congress
established a liability and just didn't focus on this
issue, as often happens, and left it to background

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

6

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

statute of limitations provisions or other background
rules.  Congress thought long and hard about this.
            With respect to the two-prong provisions,
those are the fraud provisions that were set at an outer
limit of 3 years.  And then they actually created a
discovery rule that said we don't even want people to
wait the whole 3 years; if they've discovered the facts
underlying their claim, we want them to bring it within
a year.  So, they used discovery to shorten the time,
not to extend it.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Right.  But I guess I'm
still not understanding why, if you look at this
provision, you would think of this as anything other
than an ordinary statute of limitations.  What is it
about this provision -- or, I don't mean to -- to -- I
mean, you can -- you can make structural arguments.  But
-- but, you know, what factors do you think in this
provision makes it a statute of repose?
            MR. LANDAU:  Two things, Your Honor.  First,
I'd like to just finish on the structural point; and we
also have a textual argument.
            With respect to the structure, this, let's
not forget, was enacted at the same time and as part of
the same statute as these other provisions that did use
discovery provisions to shorten the time limit.  What

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

7

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Congress did with respect to 16(b), instead of having
the 3-year outer limit plus a safety valve that would
make you have to sue even sooner, Congress has brought
in the outer limit.  The -- instead of 3 years as in the
two-prong provisions, said you've got to sue within 2
years.  Having said you've got to sue within 2 years,
they decided you didn't need that safety valve
provision.  But it would be very --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The problem is it reads
like dozens of statutes of limitations.  It says no suit
more than 2 years and that -- I think that the general
understanding is that that limitation, that kind of
limitation -- there is a presumption that it is subject
to equitable tolling, forfeiture, waiver.  And why, if
this one doesn't use any different words, why should --
            MR. LANDAU:  Two things, Your Honor.  This
legislation -- again, this section 16 is not a
stand-alone statute.  It was enacted as part of the '34
Act.  And so, I think you -- the same Congress that set
a hard outer limit of repose for fraud claims in section
9(e) and 18(c) wouldn't have wanted with respect to this
prophylactic provision that it is, by definition, both
under- and over-inclusive.  It may be --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, I could turn the
argument around on you.  Congress surely knew how to

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

8

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

write a statute of repose because it did it in this
statute, but it didn't do it with respect to these kinds
of violations.  This statute of limitations, I'm going
to call it, reads very differently from the two-pronged
positions that we've interpreted in the past.
            MR. LANDAU:  Again, Your Honor, I think one
point, just to respond to that and as well to Justice
Ginsburg's question, the -- the typical textual hook for
a statute of repose is that it's keyed off of the
defendant's conduct -- 2 years after the defendant does
X, Y, or Z.  That is -- as we quoted Black's Law
Dictionary for this proposition in our brief.  The
Seventh Circuit, Justice Posner, had an opinion just
last week underscoring this point, the Hy-Vee case, that
said the typical statute of limitations actually says 2
years after the cause of action accrued or after the
plaintiff discovered, but when you're -- when -- again,
we don't think -- in this case, we are not relying
solely on the textual thing, but in terms of numbers of
guideposts, this is not your classic statute of
limitation.  If you actually start looking at them, a
lot of them key off of accrual.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Is that -- is that true?  If
we were to look at all the statutes of limitations in
the -- in the U.S. Code, we would find that they are

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

9

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

generally or exclusively drafted like section 1658, the
general statute of limitations provisions, and are
geared to or are triggered by the accrual of the action
rather than some event?
            MR. LANDAU:  Your Honor, I think we can't
say that there is a bright-line rule.  Congress --
again, I think the most we can say is that the classic
formulation of a statute of repose is to key a time
limit off of the defendant's conduct as opposed to the
accrual.  And, again --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, the problem is
that the injury here is the defendant's conduct, meaning
if the nature of the claim, as is here, that someone has
received a profit they're not entitled to, then the
injury is the same.  The profit belonged to the
shareholders or the corporation, not to the insider.
So --
            MR. LANDAU:  Clearly to the -- yes.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- textually the nature
of the claim here is the very injury, plaintiff's
injury.
            MR. LANDAU:  Well, Your Honor, again, one of
the things about this statute that's kind of odd, it's a
prophylactic statute that doesn't even require any
injury.  I mean, it just says there has got to be

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

10

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

disgorgement to the corporation.  It's a little bit
different --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, disgorgement is
injury, meaning that it's something that -- that you're
taking away from someone else.
            MR. LANDAU:  But it's taking it away from
the defendant.  It doesn't actually mean that actually
somebody else would have earned that money.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Tell me what logic there
is in reading this as a statute of repose, other than
your argument about finality and its importance.
            MR. LANDAU:  I think --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  If we take your
adversary's position that this statute of limitations
was geared under an understanding that an insider would
in fact make the requirements -- would file the
statements required by 16(a), then it makes absolute
sense to think of it as a statute of repose.  But if
Congress understood that some wouldn't do the statutory
requirement and file in a timely manner, why wouldn't
equitable tolling be a more appropriate way to look at
this?
            MR. LANDAU:  I think the key point, Your
Honor, is to look at the 1934 Exchange Act as a whole,
which includes not only this provision but also

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

11

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

out-and-out-fraud provisions that are for intentional,
real hard-core insider trading.  That would be sections
9(e) and 18(c).  There is no question that Congress
provided a period of repose for those, the outer limit.
            And then that raises the question that
Justice Ginsburg started with, which is, do you have to
have a two-prong limit?  And the answer to that is no,
you don't -- there's no magic words, as TRW, Beggerly,
and Brockamp show us.  You just have to try to make
sense of the statute as a whole.  And Congress would not
have wanted to give repose to intentional fraudsters but
not give repose to a defendant in a purely prophylactic
section 16(b) action.  I think that's the fundamental
thing when you just step back and look at this.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, it's -- it's not
simply a prophylactic.  I mean, there's an objective
that 16(a) expresses; that is, Congress wanted these
trades to be reported and to have the form filed, Form 4
filed.  So, it's a -- it's a disclosure-forcing
provision, 16(a) is.  Then, why would Congress mean for
it to operate to immunize a defendant who has not made
that filing and who has concealed what was supposed to
be reported in 16 -- under 16(a)?
            MR. LANDAU:  Your Honor, for the same reason
that Congress would have afforded repose even to

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

12

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

out-and-out fraudsters.  Again, Congress was creating
vast new liability here.  A fraudster by definition, as
somebody who would be liable under 18(c) or 9(e), has
done kind of to conceal it.  Yet, Congress still
believed, because it was creating this vast new
liability --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Judge Posner, Mr. Landau,
has a theory for why it is that fraud is treated
differently from the 16(b) offenses, and it's that it's
much more important to prevent strategic behavior
involving timing in fraud suits -- the stock price goes
up, the stock price goes down -- whereas, in these
suits, damages are fixed.  It doesn't really matter
where you bring them.  So, it's not nearly as important
to set a clear limit.
            MR. LANDAU:  Well, like many of Judge
Posner's theories, it's -- it's a very clever theory,
but in a sense, it misses the fundamental truth that
when Congress is granting repose, it is trying to allow
people to turn the page on something in their past.  The
idea that Congress would grant repose to more culpable
people but not to less culpable people --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, you have one theory,
which -- which deals with culpability; and he has
another theory, which deals with strategic behavior.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

13

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

And I don't know how to pick between those two theories,
to tell you the truth.  The text doesn't suggest which
one Congress was thinking about.  And that puts me back,
and let's look at this provision, and this provision
looks like an ordinary vanilla statute of limitations.
            MR. LANDAU:  Well, again, the only thing
I'll say on repose before -- and I'd like to turn
then -- because we certainly don't need repose to win
this case, and -- and while we think it is best
characterized, this Court in Lampf had occasion to look
at all of the various time limits and see how they all
worked together.  And this Court characterized section
16(b) as a statute of repose.
            To be sure, that was dicta because Lampf,
itself was not a 16(b) case.  But it was -- it was -- it
was a statement or it was a recognition that came after
looking at all of these, and it would be strange now to
say that, in fact, the 16(b) time period is
potentially -- the Court said it was more restrictive,
and both the majority and Justice Kennedy in dissent
agreed that it was a statute of repose.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of course, Lampf was a
disaster, wasn't it?  Congress had to try to patch up
what we had done.
            MR. LANDAU:  Absolutely not, Your Honor.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

14

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            (Laughter.)
            MR. LANDAU:  Lampf stands as a landmark.
But -- but let me make clear, Your Honor.  Our position
here today doesn't depend on this being a statute of
repose, because even if this 2-year time limit --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Before you turn away from
the statute of repose, could I just ask you one more
question --
            MR. LANDAU:  Absolutely.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  -- on -- on that?  If -- if
16(a) reports are not filed, how likely is it that a
potential 16(b) plaintiff will find out within the
2-year period that there were these trades?
            MR. LANDAU:  Your Honor, they can find out
in many ways, the same ways that any other securities
plaintiff, including a fraud securities plaintiff, can
find out.  There are corporate books and records that
can be examined.  There are other SEC filings and SEC
investigations.  There's other litigation.  This could
come up in an estate discovery -- estate or divorce
proceedings.  There are whistle blowers, confidential
informers, brokers, counterparts -- counterparties.
            Again, if Congress had wanted the section
16(a) disclosure to be the trigger under section 16(b),
it could have done so.  And, in fact, as we noted in our

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

15

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

brief, there was an early draft in the House that
created a two-prong provision and established for -- you
know, it's an outer limit of 3 years and an inner limit
of 6 months after the 16(a) disclosure.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  What would -- what are the
other filings that might disclose this?
            MR. LANDAU:  Well, Your Honor, again,
like -- this case is a good example.  In this very case,
the contradiction at the heart of the plaintiff's case
is that they say, well, it can't possibly be discovered
without a 16(a) filing.  There was no section 16(a)
filing.  To this day, they say the statute of limitation
has not started to run.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Is there a public
document that a -- that a shareholder can look at to see
whether an insider has traded within 6 months?
            MR. LANDAU:  Well, Your Honor, there is not
a -- there is not a Form 4, which is a public document.
But not every securities filing requires a public
document.  In --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I didn't ask that.  I'm
going back to Justice Alito's question, which is how
easy is it to find out without the 16(a)?
            MR. LANDAU:  Well, again, there may be SEC
filings.  There are --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

16

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  That's a big thing.  I
didn't ask maybe.
            MR. LANDAU:  Well, no, there -- there are
SEC filings that companies are required to make.  There
are -- again, this is not a -- a -- selling -- buying
and selling shares is not something that can be done
alone in the dark of night.  You need to have other
people involved with you.  You need to have brokers
complicit.  You -- it's a large amount of shares.  The
counterparties --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  And so, what's the
likelihood that a broker's going to turn you in?
            MR. LANDAU:  There are whistle blowers.
That's the -- that's the --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  That's a very nice
thing, but what -- how likely is that?
            MR. LANDAU:  Your Honor, brokers have their
own responsibilities.  A broker could be held liable as
an aider or abettor to a violation.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  How would the broker
know that the -- that his principal didn't file a form
he was required to?
            MR. LANDAU:  Well, again, the broker may get
suspicious if the -- a broker may actually be checking.
If a -- if a -- if a CEO of a corporation is suddenly

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

17

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

selling all these things -- again, this is no different
than the way -- a securities plaintiff in an out-and-out
fraud case, and those are brought every day, Your Honor.
            But, again, I think the point here is that,
regardless of whether this is repose, even if you say
that this can be extended, it certainly can't be
extended in the way that the Ninth Circuit extended it.
And we and the SEC, the Government, agree on this:  That
the Ninth Circuit adopted this absolute black-letter
rule that says it is tolled -- it doesn't even start to
run unless and until the section 16(a) report is filed.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  How about the Second
Circuit rule?
            MR. LANDAU:  The Second Circuit rule is more
of a notice approach that says that it -- but, again,
Your Honor, the problem with the Second Circuit's
approach is that it doesn't reflect traditional
background norms of equitable tolling.  Then, if you say
it's not a statute of repose, then what do you do just
to figure out what Congress would have wanted?  You say
Congress legislates against the -- the -- the backdrop
of these kind of equitable doctrines.  So, let's look at
what equitable tolling consists of.
            This Court in many cases over the years --
it's been dealing with equitable tolling since almost

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

18

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the first days of the Court, well into the 19th century.
In the most recent cases, the Court has made clear, in
the Holland case, for instance, just two terms ago, that
equitable tolling traditionally has two minimum
requirements.
            First, there has to be diligence on the part
of the plaintiff.  And in this context that means does a
reasonable -- did the plaintiff know or would a
reasonably diligent shareholder have reason to know of
the claim; and, second, extraordinary circumstances.
            And so, with respect to the Second Circuit's
decision in Litzler, Your Honor, that you mentioned, I
think it departs from traditional equitable tolling
in -- in a couple of ways.  Most particularly, it limits
it to actual knowledge.  It doesn't say "know or should
have known," which again is the background rule, as we
and the Government agree.
            The second thing with respect to Litzler
where it departs from the background rule is it says
that it is -- per se gives rise to equitable tolling not
to file the section 16(a) and doesn't include any kind
of culpability on the defendant's part.  And Judge
Jacobs, in footnote 5 of Litzler, dropped a footnote
saying that he would prefer to announce a tolling rule
that was more consonant with, again, background rules of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

19

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

equitable tolling, that said only when the failure to
file the section 16(a) was unreasonable or -- or
intentional, because he would say otherwise you could
have a purely technical or inadvertent violation that
would give rise potentially to equitable tolling, and he
didn't think that was right.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. Landau, if we were to
agree with you on one or both of those two things,
wouldn't the normal course be to remand?  And what's
your best argument for why we should decide it?
            MR. LANDAU:  Our best argument, Your Honor,
is that the district court in this case already decided
the very issue here.  The district court said it is
undisputed, just on the pleadings, that -- that they
knew or should have known.
            This case is probably the most egregious
kind of case that you can see for this proposition
because everything here is a replay of the IPO
litigation and even the Billing case that came all the
way to this Court.  This case was filed just a few
months after this Court decided Billing.  And in
particular -- they have now -- the Respondents have come
and said, well, what we didn't know here was group, and
we didn't know that the -- the underwriters were in a
conspiracy with the issuer insiders, and that was the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

20

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

piece of the puzzle that we were missing.  And --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  We have to accept the
plaintiffs' allegations as true.  You may well be right
that they really knew or they should have known.  But,
at this stage, we can't make that judgment because we
have to accept the plaintiffs' allegations as true.
            MR. LANDAU:  Correct, Your Honor, but you
are entitled, in deciding that, to look at their own
pleadings.  And there's two important things from their
own pleadings.
            First, if you look at their complaint,
it's -- it alleges lock-up as its theory of group.  It
says that the plaintiffs and the -- the underwriters and
the issuer insiders formed a 16(a) group because they
had these lock-up agreements.  Well, those lock-up
agreements were publicly known as early as the
prospectus of these IPOs.  So, the -- the lock-up
agreement was no secret.
            Second, they say, well, we -- even though,
like, lock-up might have been out there, we didn't know
there was this underpricing-based conspiracy.  And even
assuming they could try and slice and dice it like that
according to the -- the legal theory, the fact is in
their motion to dismiss in the district court, they
cited -- this is docket 58 in the district court, pages

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

21

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1 to 2 -- they go at length about the academic
literature regarding a conspiracy between underwriters
and issuer insiders that they say gives legitimacy to
their substantive claim.  But that includes lots of
articles, including a 2004 article -- again, 2005 would
be 2 years before they filed.
            So, they are relying in their opposition to
our motion to dismiss on an article -- there's a lengthy
footnote that says there's a ton of academic research on
this particular theory.  So, basically, a remand is
unnecessary because the -- the pleaded facts by the
plaintiff themselves show this is untimely as a matter
of law.
            I'd like to reserve the balance of my time,
if there's no further questions.
            Thank you.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL
    ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE
            MR. WALL:  Justice Scalia, and may it please
the Court:
            I'd like to start where Justices Ginsburg
and Kagan did, because if you picked up this statute, it
would look for all intents and purposes like an ordinary
statute of limitations.  And the question then is, how
has Congress rebutted that presumption of equitable

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

22

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

tolling either as a matter of text, context, or
structure?
            And as I understand it, Petitioners have two
basic arguments, both of which are incorrect.  The first
is textual.  They say, well, it runs from the time of
the complained-of event.  But the reason they can't put
too much weight on that, Justice Alito, is because if
they looked through the statutes and the Court's cases,
they would come across cases like Exploration Company or
Delaware State College, where the statute ran from the
time of the complained-of event, and this Court treated
it as an ordinary statute of limitations subject to
equitable tolling; and they'd come across Beggerly,
which ran from accrual.  And yet, the Court said statute
of repose not subject to equitable tolling.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, if you were drafting a
statute of repose, how would you phrase it other than
the way this is phrased?
            MR. WALL:  I think normally what Congress
does is it says there should be no jurisdiction after a
particular time, because it's not trying to
differentiate among the application of different
equitable background principles.
            But there are statutes --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Gee, but we've -- we've

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

23

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

said that, under our recent jurisprudence anyway, we
would -- we would treat that as a statute of
limitations.  And I assume we'd treat it like a normal
statute of limitations subject to tolling.
            MR. WALL:  Justice --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You think whenever --
whenever we encounter a -- a statute of limitations that
is -- is phrased in jurisdictional term, there can be no
tolling?
            MR. WALL:  I think, Justice Scalia, that
where you have statutes that say there shall be no
jurisdiction after a particular time, this Court has
read them to cut off equitable tolling after that time.
But Congress could have written the statute to say the
time limit shall not be tolled.  And there are statutes
like that.  Now, most of those statutes say there shall
be no tolling except in particular circumstances,
because Congress has considered it more finely.  But
they could make the prohibition absolute.
            And the second argument that I understand
Petitioners to have is basically structural.  They say,
well, look, they borrowed the language from the outer
prong of the two-prong limit.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Before you get to that, do
you have an example of a -- a classic statute of repose

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

24

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

that I could look at to see how they should be phrased,
and not one that says that there shall be tolling --
there shall not be tolling except in some circumstances,
one that just says this is it; no tolling whatsoever?
            MR. WALL:  You mean other than statutes as
in Merck and Lampf where there were tiered structures?
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Right.  Right.
            MR. WALL:  There --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  A stand-alone provision.
            MR. WALL:  I think that the statute in
Beggerly was an example where the Court said, even
though it runs from accrual, it incorporates a discovery
rule and it sets a 12-year limit.  And so, textually and
contextually -- I mean, I don't think there is any
classic formulation.  I think that's why Petitioners
can't point you to anything, because the courts always
look to all the indicia of statutory meaning:  text,
context, and structure.  So, the same language can
create a statute of limitations or repose.
            So, in Lampf and Merck, if those statutes
hadn't had a two-tiered structure, just the language of
the outer prong as the statute alone, I think the Court
would have treated it as a statute of limitations.  The
Court didn't say in Lampf that language creates a
statute of repose, full stop.  It drew a structural

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

25

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

inference by looking at both of the prongs and comparing
them to each other.
            So, when Petitioners say, whoa, but they
borrowed the language of the outer limit and we know
that's repose, well, we only know it's repose in the
two-prong provisions because of their structure.  And
this provision doesn't have that structure.
            So, I don't think I can point you to any
classic formulation because the same words can be either
a limitation or repose, depending on what else Congress
does in that statute.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I don't -- I think you
understate the -- the strength of Petitioners' argument
in this regard.  It seems to me where you say, you know,
3 years unless the plaintiff knows sooner than that, and
then you say 2 years unless the plaintiff knows earlier
than that, and then you say 2 years -- it seems to me
that the implication is 2 years, period.  Whether the
plaintiff knows earlier, later, doesn't matter.
            MR. WALL:  Justice Scalia, I don't know what
else to say except that that would overrule Exploration
Company and Delaware State College.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  That's what we said in
Merck.  I mean, wasn't Merck just like that?  It says a
cause of action can be or whatever -- may not be

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

26

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

brought -- may be brought not later than the earlier of
2 years after the discovery of the facts or 5 years
after the violation.
            I take it that means 5 years after the
violation.  Forget about the discovery of the facts.
            MR. WALL:  Well, that's right, but the --
the reason that that language created a period of
repose --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Because they were both --
            MR. WALL:  -- was because of the structural
inference.  I took Justice Scalia's hypothetical to be
if the statute just said no suit shall be brought more
than X years after the violation.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, but what if those
three provisions had been -- you know, followed each
other immediately?  You know, 3 years unless, you
know -- with a cutoff that would make it shorter, and
2 years with a cutoff that would make it shorter, and
then a third one just says 2 years.  You think there
would be no implication that the 2 years means 2 years,
period?
            MR. WALL:  I think the implication would be
that, in the others, Congress created a period of repose
by using very specific language to do that.  And in the
third, it didn't.  It wrote it like an ordinary statute

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

27

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

of limitations.  Now, it could have written it
differently, Justice Scalia.  It could have said no suit
shall be brought after X time, which is the ordinary
language of statute of limitations, and that time shall
not be tolled.  And Congress has done that in other
statutes.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  If you extinguish the
claim -- the statute of limitations doesn't terminate
the claim.  It just says you can't get a remedy if you
sue too late.  But there are statutes that say you have
no claim after X time, and that would certainly be a
repose.  You have no right anymore after that.
            MR. WALL:  No question.  That's certainly
true.  If the Court --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Maybe -- maybe you'd better
go -- well, go on.  I think you'd better go to the other
point because I want to know whether you differ from the
Petitioner on the second point.  As I understand the
Petitioner, he does -- he does not think that you reach
the same result if indeed the violation had been
nonintentional.  Now, do you take that position as well?
            MR. WALL:  No, Justice Scalia.  I think that
is the one place in everything Mr. Landau said where
there is daylight between the Petitioners' position and
ours.  In the Government's view, the traditional

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

28

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

equitable rule is the statute is tolled until the
plaintiff has actual or constructive notice of the facts
underlying her claim.  It doesn't matter whether the
concealment of those facts by the defendant that gives
rise to --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But is that right, Mr. Wall?
I mean, don't we usually look when we're thinking about
equitable doctrines as whether the defendant has clean
hands?  You know, whether the defendant is culpable or
not seems to matter a good deal when we're thinking
about considerations of equity.
            MR. WALL:  Absolutely.  And I think in many
fraud and concealment cases, where you are not talking
about a duty of disclosure, either common law or
statutorily, you do have affirmative misconduct.  But
it's a different question when Congress has come in and
told the defendants by law what they have to do.  For
the defendant then to breach that statutory duty -- I
think Congress has already told them what they have to
do in this context.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But I think Mr. Landau's
point -- it was a strong part of his brief, I think --
was that there was no reason why his clients would have
thought that they had a disclosure obligation in the
first place.  So, it wasn't like they were looking at

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

29

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

this disclosure obligation and saying we don't feel like
it.  They were saying we're not covered by it.
            MR. WALL:  That just goes to Justice
Ginsburg's point, I think, which is that where a
plaintiff can sufficiently plead a section 16(b) case at
the motion to dismiss stage to survive dismissal under
Iqbal and Twombly, everyone agrees that if you've got a
16(b) potential violation, you've got a reporting duty
under 16(a).  You can't have liability for a trade under
(b) that you weren't required to report under (a).
            So, if the plaintiff can sufficiently plead
a case at the motion to dismiss stage under 16(b), by
definition the plaintiff has sufficiently pleaded that
the defendant violated a reporting obligation under (a).
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, no.  Why is that true?
Somebody could be a -- an insider without knowing that
the person was an insider.
            MR. WALL:  That's right.  But section 16(a),
except for the criminal sanctions, is a strict liability
provision.  If you're an insider and you fail to file,
you've violated 16(a).  Now, you know, it's a separate
question on 16(b), but the -- I think everyone here
agrees that if you have a violation of (b), you
necessarily have a violation of (a).  You can't be
forced to disgorge the profits from a trade you weren't

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

30

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

required to report.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  No, I understand that, but I
thought the point was -- I thought the question was
whether there is the kind of concealment that would
invoke equitable tolling when the concealment is not
done knowingly, when it is not done in -- in knowing
breach of a disclosure obligation.
            MR. WALL:  I think the -- the breach of a
duty, a statutory or a common law duty, especially where
that duty is designed to aid in the enforcement of a
private right of action, is and has been considered by
courts to be concealment.  Without looking at whether
the fiduciary just accidentally or inadvertently --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  There are two different
doctrines, I gather.  One is equitable -- equitable
tolling.  The other is sometimes called equitable
estoppel or fraudulent concealment.  But -- whatever you
call them, if you take your position, a person who
really thinks he doesn't have to file and so he doesn't
file will be liable forever.  There will be no statute
of limitations because the plaintiff will never find
out.  Maybe 50 years later.  All right?
            If you take the opposite position, then you
will prevent plaintiffs in borderline cases from
bringing suits because they aren't going to find out

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

31

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

that somebody thinks it's a borderline case.  I see one
harm one way, one harm the other way.  You're arguing
that the second harm is the worst harm.  Okay, why?
What's the argument?
            MR. WALL:  Justice Breyer, I just -- I want
to fight the premise --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  No, I'm making it for
you -- I'm making your argument.  I'm trying to.
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm saying it's something
on your side and something the other side.  He's arguing
you're wrong because if there's no bad conduct by the
defendant, he honestly thinks he doesn't have to file,
then the statute never runs.  Okay?
            MR. WALL:  We have occupied the --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  But on the other hand, his
position leads to the plaintiff never being able to sue
in borderline cases.  Which is worse?
            MR. WALL:  You're absolutely right.  They
are both bad.  We've occupied the reasonable middle
ground.  Hope you like it.
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Thank you, Mr. Wall.
That's a nice note on which to end.
            Mr. Tilden, we will hear from you.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

32

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

           ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY I. TILDEN
               ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
            MR. TILDEN:  Justice Scalia, and may it
please the Court:
            The underwriters' argument, and the
Government's for that matter, are founded on the notion
that Congress wanted someone who violated 16(a) to
receive the benefit of the statute of limitations or
repose in 16(b).
            16(b) is unique in the securities law and
perhaps in the law generally, in that the plaintiff
suffers no injury and recovers no damages.  There is no
triggering event, unlike a fraud case, your stock drops,
to suggest that you've been harmed.  16(b) is 99 percent
of the time irrelevant without a 16(a) filing.  As a
matter of logic, it makes no sense to provide that one
who violates 16(b) can escape liability because they
also violate 16(a).
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, what about as a matter
of language, whether or not 16(b) is a -- whether it's a
statute of repose or a statute of limitations, it tells
you exactly when the time is supposed to begin to run,
from the -- from the realization of the profit?  And you
want to say no, it doesn't begin to run from that point;
it begins to run from the point when some other

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

33

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

completely different external event occurs, if it ever
does occur, which is the filing of the 16(a) report.
Textually, how do you get to that?
            MR. TILDEN:  We get here -- get there this
way, Your Honor:  The Court several times recognized
that 16(b) and 16(a) were interrelated.  The limitations
period in (b) provides, in the second sentence, "such
profit" and "no such suit for such profit."  Well, what
profit and what suit are those?
            To answer that question, we must go to the
first sentence which refers to the profit of such
beneficial owner, director, and officer.  Who are they?
To know that, we must go to 16(a), which is a
single-sentence statutory command that directs
beneficial owners of more than 10 percent, directors,
and officers to file the form provided for below.  16(b)
is a statute of limitations for those who file the form.
            There is no statute of limitations in 16(b)
for those who do not.  The statute of repose contended
for by the underwriters here would have this unique
feature:  It would run invisibly to all but the
defendant.  No one else has any notice the clock is
ticking but the defendant.  This has a -- an
attractiveness if you're the defendant, but it doesn't
work well for the rest of us.  No knowledge of a

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

34

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

triggering event and its running in the face of an
affirmative statutory duty --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But I think you're arguing
against the most extreme position.  Another position is
just, regardless whether there's been a filing, if the
person knew or should have known, if a reasonable person
would have known, even if there were no filing, that's
enough.
            MR. TILDEN:  Your Honor, the -- there are
several responses to that.  16(a) we believe is the
discovery rule.  Congress looked at this and commanded
insiders to put the information in a particular location
so that shareholders, who have the primary enforcement
authority under 16(b), can go find it there.
            In the face of that congressional dictate,
can we graft an appendage onto the statute that says,
notwithstanding the fact the shareholder was told that
he or she could go look there and notwithstanding the
fact that they went to look there and there was nothing
there, they must nonetheless go elsewhere?  Congress
said:  Shareholder, go look behind door number 16 to see
if the information is there.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  They need not go elsewhere,
but when they have gone elsewhere and have found out --
I mean, in this case, it's -- it was not just that you

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

35

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

reasonably should have known; it's you did know.  Isn't
-- am I right about that?
            MR. TILDEN:  No, sir, you're not right.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Oh.  Okay.
            MR. TILDEN:  We alleged in the claim a -- a
conscious agreement between the underwriters and key
decisionmakers at the issuer to underprice the IPO.
This is extraordinarily counterintuitive behavior.  It
is not listed, mentioned at all in the IPO filing in
'02.  Judge Scheindlin's opinion in '03 nowhere refers
to "group," "agreement," "contract," "conspiracy."
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, that was the --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is that necessary to your
cause of action?
            MR. TILDEN:  A group plainly is.  A group
is.  It's a footnote, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But tell me what was
hidden from you in the prior filings in the academic
literature that your adversary points to?  All of the
facts you've just recited have been written about
extensively for years and years.  So, what new
information that you received told you that you should
file a lawsuit?
            MR. TILDEN:  Your Honor, I disagree with the
premise, but let me work backwards.  First, if you -- if

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

36

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

we were to apply a vanilla form discovery rule like
Merck, knowledge of the particular facts of the
transaction, to this day no one has knowledge of the
purchase and sales within six months and the profits.
Those are elements of a 16 -- I'm sorry -- a 16(b)
claim.  We lack knowledge.
            Two, whatever it is a reasonable shareholder
ought to do to trigger a Merck-like plain vanilla
discovery rule, we have gone far beyond that.  We cannot
impose on a shareholder the obligation to read the
Journal of Financial Management or to follow a Harvard
symposium.  Three -- and this --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  You mean to tell me that
somebody's investing in the amounts that are invested
here and they're not following the fact that this has
been the center of securities litigation for years?
            MR. TILDEN:  Your Honor, this is a -- not a
garden-variety 16(b) violation.  I agree with you
completely regarding our level of involvement, but I do
not believe we present a standard 16(b) claim.
            But to answer directly your question, the
group allegation that underwriters and key
decisionmakers of the issuer conspired together is not
in the IPO -- in the IPO case.  The allegation there was
this:  That the underwriters were getting unrevealed

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

37

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

compensation that should have been disclosed.  Should
have been disclosed and was not.  Underwriter
compensation.  And the allegation against the insiders
was that they knowingly or recklessly signed the
prospectus.  It's at page, I believe, 310 of Judge
Scheindlin's opinion.
            So, that is all that is alleged there.
There is no group activity, no notion that this acted in
concert -- or that they were acting in concert.  The
notion that someone would deliberately underprice their
IPO first appeared in the scholarly research at a Spring
of '09 Harvard symposium a year and a half after we
filed our claim.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Could you answer what I
consider a very strong argument on their side, which is
Congress, who creates a statute of repose for
intentional conduct like fraud, why would they not
create a statute of repose for what is a strict
liability statute?
            MR. TILDEN:  The fraud case is all about --
involve, Your Honor, someone who has reason to know that
they've been defrauded.  It may only be that they bought
their stock at X, and now it's selling for half of X,
but they know something has happened.  There is no
equivalent here.  The 16(b) plaintiff has suffered no

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

38

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

injury.  It's critical to an understanding of what the
Congress contemplated at the time.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  One would think, if the
16(b) plaintiff has really suffered no injury, it would
be all the more likely that Congress would want a
statute of repose.
            MR. TILDEN:  I don't believe, Your Honor --
the 1934 legislative history made it clear -- makes it
clear that Congress was extraordinarily concerned about
a broad sweep of misconduct in the '20s.  They intended
a rule that in this Court's language in Reliance
Electric would be flat, sweeping, and arbitrary.  They
intended to squeeze every penny of profit out of these
transactions, and they did so in 16(b).
            This is not a trap for the unwary.  Congress
has said you cannot be unwary.  If you are an insider,
you must be wary.  You must be wary.  That's what
Congress has said.
            If we are concerned about how this might
work going forward -- and the underwriter has raised a
parade of horribles:  Oh, this is what will happen if
the Court adopts our position.  One thing we might do if
we want to know what will occur in the next 64 or
77 years is look backwards at the last 64 or 77 years.
The Whittaker rule has been the rule in most of the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

39

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

United States for virtually the entirety of the last
77 years.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  It's worked out, but I
don't understand it.  I mean, why not just treat it like
a special -- regular statute of limitations?  You say
that the profit is made on day one.  It was made by an
insider, and if your client finds out about it or
reasonably should have found out about it, then the
statute begins to run.
            MR. TILDEN:  Your Honor --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Otherwise it's tolled,
period.  Simple, same as every other statute.  What's
wrong with that?
            MR. TILDEN:  Well, we don't believe the
congressional design contemplated tolling.  Congress
told shareholders we could go look in a particular
place.  But here's one other problem with it.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  But there are people, you
see, who don't know.  There are always borderline cases.
Some people, whether it's this one or not, think maybe
they don't have to file.  They think they're outside the
statute.  So, they don't.  Okay?
            You are protected.  If they don't file, and
you wouldn't reasonably find out about it, fine.  But
when you find out about it or should have, not fine.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

40

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

It's very simple and makes everything logical.  It seems
to be fair to your client, certainly.
            MR. TILDEN:  It may be simple and fair, Your
Honor.  We -- we don't believe it's what the language of
the statute provides for.  It also suffers from this
additional defect:  Under the statute in this Court's
opinion in Gollust v. Mendell, the standing requirement
for 16(b) is that you own shares at the time of
institution of the action.  This can be years subsequent
to the events themselves.
            Can we adopt a statute of limitation, a
discovery rule that runs against someone who has not yet
acquired standing under Gollust?  I wonder if we can.
It seems to me to defeat the special standing that
Congress intended 16(b) shareholders to have.  You
acquire standing on day 700 when you purchase your
shares, only to find that you have no claim because you
were having imputed to you something that a shareholder,
which you were not, knew or should have known 3 years
earlier.  Could that be --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. -- Mr. Tilden, is there
any other context in which we would extend the
statute -- or we have extended or any court has extended
a statute of limitations without requiring that the
plaintiff be reasonably diligent?  Can you point to any

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

41

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

other example of that?
            MR. TILDEN:  I -- I cannot, Your Honor, but
I can also not point to a statute of limitations such as
this one that follows immediately on an affirmative
disclosure obligation imposed on the defendant.
            To answer a question Justice Alito raised in
response to one of my colleagues, I believe the best
analysis of the difference between a statute of
limitations and a statute of repose by this Court
recently is in the Beach v. Ocwen opinion.  And in
Beach, the Court analyzed the Truth in Lending Act and
concluded the language that said 3 years after the
transaction the right of rescission shall cease, was a
statute of repose.  It was completely clear.  It did not
rely on a discovery rule incorporated therein; it did
not require a -- did not rely on a second prong.  Beach
cites the -- a prominent Harvard Law Review article at
63 Harvard Law Review, and is a wonderful analysis of
this Court's work on this subject.
            A kernel of the motivation in the
underwriters' briefing is the notion that liability
under 16(b) is draconian, that there's -- that it's
harsh.  It's important to note that all you have to do
under 16(b) is give back profit that never belonged to
you.  In the words of the statute, it inured to the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

42

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

corporation; you weren't entitled to it.  It's as if the
penalty for bank robbery were that you merely had to
give the money back.  No attorneys' fees.  You don't
have to return your principal, you just give the money
back.
            Finally, I'd like to address a difference
between the Whittaker decision and the Litzler decision,
briefly.  Both of these courts found that 16(b) only
worked by virtue of 16(a).  In Whittaker, the Ninth
Circuit said only by full compliance with 16(a) do your
16(b) rights mean anything.  And in Litzler, the Second
Circuit said 16(b) only works because of the absolute
duty of disclosure placed on the defendant.  We agree
with that.  We disagree with my buddy, Mr. Landau.
            Most trading today occurs electronically in
the dark of night; it is invisible to everyone else.
But if the Court gets to the position where it is
debating whether Whittaker or Litzler ought to be the
rule --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Or the SG's.
            MR. TILDEN:  -- or the SG's, we'd offer
this:  There is no reported decision in which Whittaker
and Litzler will yield different results in our view.
Whittaker is a bright-line rule of the kind Congress
intended.  Litzler is a rule that in its own words

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

43

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

requires conceivably discovery and trial.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  And it requires actual -- is
that right?  It requires actual knowledge on the part of
the plaintiff?
            MR. TILDEN:  Yes, sir.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Does that make any sense,
given the -- the class of individuals who are plaintiffs
in 16(b) cases?
            MR. TILDEN:  We don't --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Somebody who -- who is found
for purposes of litigation very often to have purchased
his stock long after all of this takes place.  So, the
lawyer who wants to bring this suit can just go out and
find somebody who knows nothing?  Isn't that right?
            MR. TILDEN:  The -- there's much I want to
say in response to that.  The underwriters contended in
the lower courts for a subjective rule.  No party before
this Court contends for a subjective rule.  We do not
believe that -- Whittaker is not a subjective rule, and
I do not believe that Judge Jacobs in Litzler was
arguing for a subjective rule.
            What he envisioned -- he -- the judge had a
fair concern in the abstract.  He said, look, if they
don't file the form but the identical information is
available to all the world everywhere else, what's wrong

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

44

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

with that?  Well, there's nothing wrong with it, except
that it's never available to all the world anywhere
else.  No other securities filings reveal this.
Congress told us to go look in one place, and not
anywhere else.
            But the Litzler court I don't think
envisioned an actual notice rule.  When it said
information as clear as 2 plus 2, I believe it was
seeking an objective rule, Whittaker-like, looking for
Whittaker-equivalent information.  We don't believe such
a thing exists.  That said, the Litzler rule requires
discovery in trial.
            If the rules don't achieve different
results, then we have the choice between applying a rule
that is just, speedy, and efficient -- Whittaker -- and
a rule that is just, slow, and costly -- Litzler.  Some
version of Occam's Razor, if nothing else, ought to
support the application of the Whittaker rule and not
the Litzler rule, should the Court find itself in that
position.
            Here's the last thing I'd say, and then I
will be quiet.  Today is the first time this Court has
analyzed the issue before it, but it's come up
repeatedly in the lower courts over the last 77 years,
and with one exception, 1954, in the Middle District of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

45

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Pennsylvania, the courts have unanimously rejected the
petition -- the position contended for by both the
underwriters here and the Government.  The rule has been
Whittaker or a Litzler variant of it everywhere, all the
time.
            In 1934, the purchase or sale of a share of
stock required the actual knowledge of some other
people.  Today it is an impersonal electronic
transaction, often at home in the middle of the night,
invisible to everyone.  Insider trading was hard enough
to uncover then; it's gotten harder now.  We do not
believe that Congress envisioned any additional burden
would be placed on a shareholder by forcing them to
learn this undetectable conduct within 2 years.
            The most, in our view, famous pronouncement
by this Court with respect to the interpretation of
16(b) is out of the Reliance Electric opinion in 1962.
In Reliance, the Court said, faced with a question, two
competing interpretations of the statute, the Court
should -- should select that interpretation that best
serves the congressional purpose of curbing short-swing
speculation by insiders.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  The -- the problem I have
with your argument is it's a very strange statute of
limitations.  Accepting that it is not a statute of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

46

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

repose, it says, you know, you have 2 years after the --
the transaction that was failed to be reported.
            And you want to say what it means is you
have 2 years from the time it was reported.  Congress
would have said that.  It's so easy to say that.  Two
years from the reporting.
            MR. TILDEN:  I grant you it could have been
said otherwise, Your Honor, but we --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But I don't know any other
statute of limitations that achieves the result that you
want that puts it that way.
            MR. TILDEN:  Every other statute of
limitations we can think of, Your Honor, involves a
plaintiff who has reason to know of some harm and,
incidentally, recovers damages.  The 16(b) plaintiff has
no reason to know of harm and recovers no damages.
Right?
            If I -- let's take a case that's seen every
day and every month, probably in every State in the
country.  A lawnmower accident and a child or a teenager
loses a toe.  You may not know anything about lawnmower
design.  You may not know anything about your State's
product liability act or ANSI standards or the litany of
duty breach, causation, and damages, but you do know
that you used to have ten toes and now you have nine.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

47

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            There is no equivalent.  The 16(b) plaintiff
does not know insider trading has occurred and won't
know unless he or she is told.  They do not know if
someone else somewhere has nine toes.  As far as they
know, everybody still has all of their toes.
            No other statute of limitations will serve
as an analogue here because of the unique character of
16(b).  The plaintiff has no injury and recovers no
damages.  We don't believe we can fairly look at other
statutes of limitation as a model, given that
distinction.
            The Reliance Electric court concluded if --
if you have a choice, you should select that
interpretation that best serves the goal of curbing
short-swing trading by insiders.
            We believe the -- the case before the Court
can and should be determined based on the wording of
16(b) itself.  The limitations period in (b) applies to
those who file the form in (a).  But if the Court
believes that the textual analysis is less clear than we
think, the Ninth Circuit should be affirmed based on the
interpretive principles of Reliance Electric,
nonetheless.
            If there are no other questions, I'll sit
down.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

48

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Thank you, Mr. Tilden.
            Mr. Landau, you have 4 minutes.
        REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LANDAU
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. LANDAU:  Thank you, Your Honor.  Very
briefly, just on repose, two quick points.
            If there's any one theme that runs through
this Court's 16(b) jurisprudence, it's that precisely
because the -- section 16(b) is prophylactic, it should
be interpreted in a literal and mechanical way.  I think
the -- that argues for repose, because you don't get
into a lot of these questions about who knew what when.
And so, that certainly would be consistent with -- this
case would fit well within that -- that tradition, if
you were to go that way.
            In addition on repose, let's not forget that
Congress gave 2 years after the date the profits were
realized.  If those profits were in a report, you
wouldn't need the whole 2 years, anyway.  In fact, for
the fraud provision, you only get 1 year after you
discover it.  So, in a sense, I think that helps show
that even in a repose approach, 2 years is plenty of
time.
            Then -- but assuming that you go with
equitable tolling, I think -- I'd like to emphasize that

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

49

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

there's really four approaches that have been brought
forth.  There's the Ninth Circuit's rigid approach that
it's -- they call it equitable tolling, but there's
really nothing equitable about it.  It's -- it's we
don't care about who knew what, when, or anything.  It
is you have to file the 16(a).
            The district court actually struggled
because the district court in this case said I'm
supposed to be doing something called equitable tolling,
and there's nothing equitable here at all, because I
think everything here was plainly known to the -- to the
plaintiffs or should have been known.
            Then you have the Litzler approach, which
looks to actual knowledge.  And I think, as some of the
questioning brought out, there is no background rule
that distinguishes between actual knowledge and
constructive knowledge for purposes of equitable
tolling.
            Again, I think as some of the questions
brought out, equitable tolling, because it's an
equitable doctrine, looks to has the defendant behaved
equitably and has the plaintiff behaved equitably?
            And we agree with the Government that
diligence -- in other words, would a reasonable
shareholder -- did a shareholder know or would a

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

50

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

reasonable shareholder should have known -- is a
critical part of the inquiry that's missing in -- in the
Ninth Circuit's analysis.
            Where we disagree with the Government is
with respect to their -- their view of fraudulent
concealment to involve any violation -- any alleged
violation of a statutory 16(a) duty.  Under the
Government's view, it would be considered fraudulent
concealment and would -- would give rise to tolling if
somebody were to come in today and say, gee, the
Microsoft IPO back in 1986, there was actually a group
in there, the underwriters conspired.  And -- you know,
the thing is the difference between this case and that
one is this case happens to have involved this hugely
prominent IPO litigation that really brought all these
things to light, but the -- the defendant in that
Microsoft hypothetical would not have the advantage of
being able to point to the defendant's -- to the
plaintiffs' lack of diligence, saying this is all out
there.
            So, you'd be creating a regime, if you go
with the Government's approach, that really waters down
the defendant's culpability on the fraudulent
concealment side of equitable tolling.  Essentially,
they're asking you to take the fraud out of fraudulent

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

51

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

concealment.
            The only last point I'd like to make is
that, with respect to the specific facts here again,
counsel said today that this was not known until a
Harvard symposium in 2009.  I would urge you, again, to
look at their briefing below.  Their -- docket 58 in the
district court responds to our motion to dismiss by
citing a 2004 article that they actually included in the
joint appendix.  You can look at joint appendix 80 to
83.  Their theory of underwriter conspiracy with issuer
insiders is set forth right there on those pages of that
2004 article, well before the 2 years.
            And, again, in addition, the 2000 -- their
complaint, which talks about lock-up, you can look
specifically at joint appendix 59 to 61 to see how
lock-up was alleged to be a critical part of their
underlying theory.
            Finally, it is not true, again, that the IPO
litigation was only about underwriters.  There were
individual issuer defendants at issue in the IPO
litigation.  And, in fact, Judge Scheindlin's opinion
goes into some detail about the -- the alleged
conspiracy that they're saying -- the alleged group that
they're saying they couldn't have found out.
            In fact, she says -- this is -- pages 356

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

52

and 358 of the Judge Scheindlin opinion will provide
quotations that show that their theory was very well
known.  Thank you.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Thank you, Mr. Landau.
            The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 12:01 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

A

abettor 16:19
able 31:17 50:18
above-entitled

1:12 52:7

absolute 10:17

absolutely 13:25

17:9 23:19
42:12

14:9 28:12
31:19

abstract 43:23
academic 21:1,9

35:18

accept 20:2,6
Accepting 45:25
accident 46:20
accidentally

30:13

accrual 8:22 9:3

9:10 22:14
24:12

accrued 8:16
achieve 44:13
achieves 46:10
acquire 40:16
acquired 40:13
act 3:11 4:4 5:20

7:19 10:24
41:11 46:23

acted 37:8
acting 37:9
action 3:12 8:16

9:3 11:13
25:25 30:11
35:14 40:9
activity 37:8
actual 18:15
28:2 43:2,3
44:7 45:7
49:14,16

addition 48:16

additional 40:6

51:13

45:12

address 42:6
adopt 40:11

adopted 17:9
adopts 38:22
advantage 50:17
adversary 35:19
adversary's

10:14

affirmative
28:15 34:2
41:4

affirmed 47:21
afforded 11:25
ago 18:3
agree 17:8 18:17

19:8 36:18
42:13 49:23
agreed 13:21
agreement

20:18 35:6,11

agreements
20:15,16

agrees 29:7,23
aid 30:10
aider 16:19
AL 1:4
Alito 8:23 14:6

14:10 15:5
22:7,16 23:24
24:7,9 29:15
30:2 32:19
41:6 43:2,6,10

Alito's 15:22
allegation 36:22

36:24 37:3

allegations 20:3

20:6

alleged 35:5
37:7 50:6
51:16,22,23
alleges 20:12
allow 3:12 12:19
amicus 1:20 2:7

21:18

amount 16:9
amounts 36:14
analogue 47:7
analysis 5:12

41:8,18 47:20

Official
Official

53

APPEARAN...

44:2

analyzed 41:11

50:3

44:23

announce 18:24
ANSI 46:23
answer 11:7
33:10 36:21
37:14 41:6

anymore 27:12
anyway 23:1

48:19

1:15

34:16

51:15

appeared 37:11
appendage

appendix 51:9,9

application

22:22 44:18
applies 5:6,15

47:18

apply 4:3 36:1
applying 44:14
approach 17:15

17:17 48:22
49:2,13 50:22
approaches 49:1
appropriate

10:21

arbitrary 38:12
argues 48:11
arguing 31:2,11

34:3 43:21

argument 1:13
2:2,5,8,11 3:3
3:7 6:21 7:25
10:11 19:10,11
21:17 23:20
25:13 31:4,8
32:1,5 37:15
45:24 48:3

arguments 6:16

22:4

article 21:5,8

41:17 51:8,12

articles 21:5

asking 50:25
Assistant 1:18
assume 23:3
assuming 20:22

48:24

attorneys 42:3
attractiveness

33:24

attuned 5:21
authority 34:14
available 43:25

a.m 1:14 3:2

B

b 1:18 2:6 21:17
29:10,23 33:7
47:18

back 11:14 13:3

15:22 41:24
42:3,5 50:11

backdrop 17:21
background 5:5
5:5,7,10,25 6:1
17:18 18:16,19
18:25 22:23
49:15

backwards

35:25 38:24
bad 31:12,20
balance 21:14
bank 42:2
based 47:17,21
basic 3:22 22:4
basically 21:10

Beach 41:10,11

23:21

41:16

Beggerly 5:4
11:8 22:13
24:11

begins 32:25

39:9

behalf 2:4,7,10
2:13 3:8 21:18
32:2 48:4

behaved 49:21

49:22

behavior 12:10

12:25 35:8
believe 34:10
36:20 37:5
38:7 39:14
40:4 41:7
43:19,20 44:8
44:10 45:12
47:9,16

believed 12:5
believes 47:20
belonged 9:15

41:24

33:15

beneficial 33:12

benefit 32:8
best 3:24 13:9
19:10,11 41:7
45:20 47:14

better 27:15,16
beyond 36:9
big 16:1
Billing 19:19,21
bit 10:1
Black's 8:11
black-letter

17:9

blowers 14:21

16:13

books 14:17
borderline

30:24 31:1,18
39:19

borrowed 23:22

25:4

bought 37:22
breach 28:18
30:7,8 46:24
Breyer 25:23
26:9 30:14
31:5,7,10,16
39:3,11,18

brief 8:12 15:1

briefing 41:21

28:22

51:6

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

briefly 42:8 48:6
bright-line 9:6

causation 46:24
cause 3:12 8:16

clean 28:8
clear 12:15 14:3

42:24

bring 4:4 6:8
12:14 43:13
bringing 30:25
broad 38:10
Brockamp 5:4

11:9

broker 16:18,20

16:23,24

brokers 14:22

16:8,17

broker's 16:12
brought 3:15

7:3 17:3 26:1,1
26:12 27:3
49:1,15,20
50:15

buddy 42:14
burden 45:12
buying 16:5

C
C 2:1 3:1
call 8:4 30:18

called 30:16

49:3

49:9

care 49:5
carefully 5:21
case 3:4 4:8 5:10

8:14,18 13:9
13:15 15:8,8,9
17:3 18:3
19:12,16,17,19
19:20 29:5,12
31:1 32:13
34:25 36:24
37:20 46:18
47:16 48:14
49:8 50:13,14
52:5,6

cases 17:24 18:2

22:8,9 28:13
30:24 31:18
39:19 43:8

25:25 35:14

cease 41:13
center 36:16
century 18:1
CEO 16:25
certain 3:13
certainly 4:23

4:25 13:8 17:6
27:11,13 40:2
48:13

character 47:7
characterized

13:10,12

checking 16:24
child 46:20
choice 44:14

47:13

CHRISTOPH...
1:16 2:3,12 3:7
48:3

Circuit 3:18

8:13 17:7,9,13
17:14 42:10,12
47:21

Circuit's 4:7
17:16 18:11
49:2 50:3

circumstances

4:5 18:10
23:17 24:3

cite 4:13
cited 20:25
cites 41:17
citing 51:8
claim 4:4 6:8

9:13,20 18:10
21:4 27:8,9,11
28:3 35:5 36:6
36:20 37:13
40:17

claims 7:20
class 43:7
classic 8:20 9:7
23:25 24:15
25:9

Official

54

18:2 38:8,9
41:14 44:8
47:20

Clearly 9:18
clever 12:17
client 39:7 40:2
clients 28:23
clock 33:22
Code 8:25
colleagues 41:7
College 22:10

25:22

come 14:20

19:22 22:9,13
28:16 44:23
50:10

command 33:14
commanded

common 28:14

34:11

30:9

companies 16:4
Company 22:9

25:22

comparing 25:1
compensation

37:1,3

competing

45:19

complained-of

22:6,11

complaint 4:8
20:11 51:14

completely 33:1

36:19 41:14

compliance

42:10

complicit 16:9
conceal 12:4
concealed 11:22
concealment

28:4,13 30:4,5
30:12,17 50:6
50:9,24 51:1

conceivably

43:1

concern 43:23
concerned 38:9

38:19

concert 37:9,9
concluded 41:12

47:12

conduct 8:10 9:9

9:12 31:12
37:17 45:14
confidential

14:21

Congress 3:12
4:25 5:7,20,22
5:23 6:2 7:1,3
7:19,25 9:6
10:19 11:3,10
11:17,20,25
12:1,4,19,21
13:3,23 14:23
17:20,21 21:25
22:19 23:14,18
25:10 26:23
27:5 28:16,19
32:7 34:11,20
37:16 38:2,5,9
38:15,18 39:15
40:15 42:24
44:4 45:12
46:4 48:17

congressional
34:15 39:15
45:21

conscious 35:6
consider 37:15
considerations

28:11

considered

23:18 30:11
50:8

consistent 48:13
consists 17:23
consonant 18:25
conspiracy

19:25 20:21
21:2 35:11
51:10,23

conspired 36:23

50:12

constructive
28:2 49:17

contemplated

38:2 39:15

contended 33:19

43:16 45:2

contends 43:18
context 18:7
22:1 24:18
28:20 40:22
contextually

24:14

contract 35:11
contradiction

15:9

corporate 14:17
corporation
9:16 10:1
16:25 42:1
Correct 20:7
costly 44:16
counsel 4:11

counterintuitive

51:4

35:8

counterparties
14:22 16:10
counterparts

14:22

country 46:20
couple 18:14
course 13:22

19:9

court 1:1,13
3:10,23 4:7
13:10,12,19
17:24 18:1,2
19:12,13,20,21
20:24,25 21:20
22:11,14 23:12
24:11,22,24
27:14 32:4
33:5 38:22
40:23 41:9,11
42:17 43:18

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

55

44:6,19,22
45:16,18,19
47:12,16,19
49:7,8 51:7
courts 24:16
30:12 42:8
43:17 44:24
45:1

Court's 5:3 22:8

38:11 40:6
41:19 48:8
covered 3:14

29:2

create 24:19

37:18

created 3:12 6:5

15:2 26:7,23
creates 24:24

creating 12:1,5

37:16

50:21

Credit 1:3 3:4
criminal 29:19
critical 38:1
50:2 51:16
culpability

12:24 18:22
50:23

culpable 12:21

12:22 28:9

curbing 45:21

curiae 1:20 2:7

47:14

21:18

cut 23:13
cutoff 26:17,18

D

D 3:1
damages 12:13
32:12 46:15,16
46:24 47:9

dark 16:7 42:16
date 3:15,17,19

48:17

day 15:12 17:3

36:3 39:6

40:16 46:19
daylight 27:24
days 18:1
deal 28:10
dealing 17:25
deals 12:24,25
debating 42:18
decide 19:10
decided 7:7
19:12,21

deciding 20:8
decision 4:7 5:3
18:12 42:7,7
42:22

decisionmakers

35:7 36:23
default 5:5,14
defeat 40:14
defect 40:6
defendant 8:10
10:7 11:12,21
28:4,8,9,18
29:14 31:13
33:22,23,24
41:5 42:13
49:21 50:16

defendants 3:17

28:17 51:20
defendant's
8:10 9:9,12
18:22 50:18,23

definition 7:22

12:2 29:13

defrauded 37:22
Delaware 22:10

deliberately

Department

25:22

37:10

1:19

departs 18:13

18:19

depend 14:4
depending

design 39:15

25:10

46:22

designed 30:10
detail 51:22
determined

47:17

dice 20:22
dicta 13:14
dictate 34:15
Dictionary 8:12
differ 27:17
difference 41:8

42:6 50:13
different 7:15

10:2 17:1
22:22 28:16
30:14 33:1
42:23 44:13
differentiate

22:22

differently 8:4

12:9 27:2

diligence 18:6
49:24 50:19
diligent 18:9

40:25

diligently 4:4
directions 4:8
directly 36:21
director 33:12
directors 33:15
directs 33:14
disagree 35:24

42:14 50:4

disaster 13:23
disclose 15:6
disclosed 37:1,2
disclosure 14:24
15:4 28:14,24
29:1 30:7 41:5
42:13

disclosure-for...

11:19

discover 48:21
discovered 6:7

8:17 15:10

discovers 3:20
discovery 4:14
6:6,9,25 14:20

24:12 26:2,5
34:11 36:1,9
40:12 41:15
43:1 44:12

discussion 5:22
disgorge 29:25
disgorgement

10:1,3

dismiss 4:8
20:24 21:8
29:6,12 51:7
dismissal 29:6
dissent 13:20
distinction

distinguishes

47:11

49:16

district 19:12,13
20:24,25 44:25
49:7,8 51:7
divorce 14:20
docket 20:25

51:6

doctrine 4:2

49:21

doctrines 17:22

28:8 30:15

document 15:15

15:18,20
doing 49:9
door 34:21
dozens 7:10
draconian 41:22
draft 15:1
drafted 9:1
drafting 22:16
drew 24:25
drive 5:12
dropped 18:23
drops 32:13
duty 28:14,18

29:8 30:9,9,10
34:2 42:13
46:24 50:7
D.C 1:9,16,19

E

Alderson Reporting Company

E 2:1 3:1,1
earlier 25:16,19

26:1 40:20

early 15:1 20:16
earned 10:8
easy 15:23 46:5
efficient 44:15
egregious 19:16
either 22:1 25:9

28:14

Electric 38:12

45:17 47:12,22

electronic 45:8
electronically

42:15

elements 36:5
emphasize

enacted 6:23

48:25

7:18

encounter 23:7
enforcement
30:10 34:13
entirety 39:1
entitled 9:14
20:8 42:1
envisioned
43:22 44:7
45:12

equitable 4:2,18

5:6,15 7:14
10:21 17:18,22
17:23,25 18:4
18:13,20 19:1
19:5 21:25
22:13,15,23
23:13 28:1,8
30:5,15,15,16
48:25 49:3,4,9
49:10,17,20,21
50:24

equitably 49:22

49:22

equity 28:11
equivalent
37:25 47:1
escape 32:17

especially 30:9
ESQ 1:16,18,21

2:3,6,9,12
Essentially

50:24

establish 5:2
established 5:24

15:2

estate 14:20,20
estoppel 30:17
ET 1:4
event 9:4 22:6
22:11 32:13
33:1 34:1
events 40:10
everybody 47:5
exactly 32:22
examined 14:18
example 15:8
23:25 24:11
41:1

exception 44:25
Exchange 3:11

5:20 10:24

exclusively 9:1
exists 44:11
Exploration
22:9 25:21

expresses 11:17
extend 4:3 6:10

40:22

extended 3:25
4:2 17:6,7,7
40:23,23
extensively

35:21

external 33:1
extinguish 27:7
extraordinarily

35:8 38:9

extraordinary

4:5 18:10

extreme 34:4

F

face 34:1,15
faced 45:18

fact 5:3 10:16
13:18 14:25
20:23 34:17,19
36:15 48:19
51:21,25
factors 6:17
facts 6:7 21:11
26:2,5 28:2,4
35:20 36:2
51:3

fail 29:20
failed 46:2
failure 19:1
fair 40:2,3 43:23
fairly 47:9
famous 45:15
far 36:9 47:4
feature 33:21
feel 29:1
fees 42:3
fiduciary 30:13
fight 31:6
figure 17:20
file 10:16,20
16:21 18:21
19:2 29:20
30:19,20 31:13
33:16,17 35:23
39:21,23 43:24
47:19 49:6

filed 3:17 11:18

11:19 14:11
17:11 19:20
21:6 37:13

filing 4:6 11:22

15:11,12,19
32:15 33:2
34:5,7 35:9
filings 14:18

15:6,25 16:4
35:18 44:3
finality 10:11
Finally 42:6

51:18

Financial 36:11
find 8:25 14:12
14:14,17 15:23

Official

56

30:21,25 34:14
39:24,25 40:17
43:14 44:19

finds 39:7
fine 39:24,25
finely 23:18
finish 6:20
first 3:23 4:10

4:12 6:19 18:1
18:6 20:11
22:4 28:25
33:11 35:25
37:11 44:22

fit 48:14
fixed 12:13
flat 38:12
focus 5:24
follow 36:11
followed 26:15
following 36:15
follows 41:4
footnote 18:23

18:23 21:9
35:16

forced 29:25
forcing 45:13
forever 30:20
forfeiture 7:14
forget 6:23 26:5

48:16

form 11:18,18
15:18 16:21
33:16,17 36:1
43:24 47:19
formed 20:14
formulation 9:8

24:15 25:9

forth 49:2 51:11
forward 38:20
found 34:24
39:8 42:8
43:10 51:24
founded 32:6
four 49:1
fraud 6:4 7:20
12:8,11 14:16
17:3 28:13

32:13 37:17,20
48:20 50:25
fraudster 12:2
fraudsters 11:11

12:1

fraudulent

30:17 50:5,8
50:23,25

full 24:25 42:10
fundamental
11:13 12:18
further 4:20

21:15

G

G 3:1
garden-variety

36:18

gather 30:15
geared 9:3 10:15
gee 22:25 50:10
general 1:19

7:11 9:2

generally 9:1

32:11

getting 36:25
Ginsburg 4:10
4:12 5:12 7:9
11:6,15 17:12
20:2 21:21
27:7

Ginsburg's 8:8

29:4

give 11:11,12
19:5 41:24
42:3,4 50:9

given 43:7 47:10
gives 4:20 18:20

21:3 28:4

go 21:1 27:16,16
27:16 33:10,13
34:14,18,20,21
34:23 39:16
43:13 44:4
48:15,24 50:21

goal 47:14
goes 12:11,12

29:3 51:22

going 8:3 15:22

16:12 30:25
38:20

Gollust 40:7,13
good 15:8 28:10
gotten 45:11
Government

3:21 17:8
18:17 45:3
49:23 50:4

Government's

27:25 32:6
50:8,22

graft 34:16
grant 12:21 46:7
granting 12:19
ground 31:21
group 19:23

20:12,14 35:11
35:15,15 36:22
37:8 50:11
51:23

guess 6:11
guideposts 8:20

H

half 37:12,23
hand 31:16
hands 28:9
happen 38:21
happened 37:24
happens 5:25

hard 6:2 7:20

50:14

45:10

harder 45:11
hard-core 11:2
harm 31:2,2,3,3

46:14,16

harmed 32:14
harsh 41:23
Harvard 36:11
37:12 41:17,18
51:5

hear 3:3 31:25
heart 15:9

Alderson Reporting Company

held 16:18
helps 48:21
hidden 35:18
history 38:8
Holland 18:3
home 45:9
honestly 31:13
Honor 4:22 5:16
5:19 6:19 7:16
8:6 9:5,22
10:24 11:24
13:25 14:3,14
15:7,17 16:17
17:3,16 18:12
19:11 20:7
33:5 34:9
35:16,24 36:17
37:21 38:7
39:10 40:4
41:2 46:8,13
48:5

hook 8:8
Hope 31:21
horribles 38:21
House 15:1
hugely 50:14
hypothetical
26:11 50:17
Hy-Vee 8:14

I
idea 12:21
identical 43:24
immediately
26:16 41:4

immunize 11:21
impersonal 45:8
implication

25:18 26:20,22

importance

10:11

important 12:10

12:14 20:9
41:23

impose 36:10
imposed 41:5
imputed 40:18

inadvertent

inadvertently

incidentally

19:4

30:13

46:15

include 18:21
included 51:8
includes 10:25

21:4

21:5

including 14:16

incorporated

incorporates

41:15

24:12

incorrect 22:4
indicia 24:17
individual 51:20
individuals 43:7
inference 25:1

26:11

information

34:12,22 35:22
43:24 44:8,10
informers 14:22
injury 9:12,15

9:20,21,25
10:4 32:12
38:1,4 47:8

inner 15:3
inquiry 50:2
insider 9:16
10:15 11:2
15:16 29:16,17
29:20 38:16
39:7 45:10
47:2

insiders 19:25

20:14 21:3
34:12 37:3
45:22 47:15
51:11

instance 18:3
institution 40:9
intended 38:10
38:13 40:15

Official

42:25

intentional 11:1

11:11 19:3
37:17

intents 21:23
interpretation

45:16,20 47:14
interpretations

interpreted 8:5

45:19

48:10

47:22

33:6

interpretive

interrelated

inured 41:25
invested 36:14
investigations

14:19

investing 36:14
invisible 42:16

45:10

invisibly 33:21
invoke 30:5
involve 37:21

involved 16:8

involvement

50:6

50:14

36:19

involves 46:13
involving 12:11
IPO 19:18 35:7
35:9 36:24,24
37:11 50:11,15
51:18,20
IPOs 20:17
Iqbal 29:7
irrelevant 32:15
issue 5:21,25
19:13 44:23
51:20

issuer 19:25
20:14 21:3
35:7 36:23
51:10,20
issuers 3:13

57

41:6 42:20
43:2,6,10
45:23 46:9
48:1 52:4

Justices 21:21

K

Kagan 5:9,17

6:11 7:24 12:7
12:23 19:7
21:22 28:6,21
34:3 40:21

Kennedy 13:20
kernel 41:20
key 5:19 8:22

9:8 10:23 35:6
36:22

keyed 8:9
kind 4:19 5:6

7:12 9:23 12:4
17:22 18:21
19:17 30:4
42:24

kinds 8:2
knew 7:25 19:15

20:4 34:6
40:19 48:12
49:5

know 6:17 13:1

15:3 16:21
18:8,9,15
19:23,24 20:20
25:4,5,14,20
26:15,16,17
27:17 28:9
29:21 33:13
35:1 37:21,24
38:23 39:19
46:1,9,14,16
46:21,22,24
47:2,3,3,5
49:25 50:12
knowing 29:16

knowingly 30:6

30:6

37:4

knowledge

J

Jacobs 18:23

43:20

JEFFREY 1:18

1:21 2:6,9
21:17 32:1

joint 51:9,9,15
Journal 36:11
judge 12:7,16
18:22 35:10
37:5 43:20,22
51:21 52:1

judgment 20:5
jurisdiction
22:20 23:12
jurisdictional

23:8

jurisprudence

23:1 48:8

Justice 1:19 3:3
3:9 4:10,11,12
5:9,11,17 6:11
7:9,24 8:7,13
8:23 9:11,19
10:3,9,13 11:6
11:15 12:7,23
13:20,22 14:6
14:10 15:5,14
15:21,22 16:1
16:11,15,20
17:12 19:7
20:2 21:19
22:7,16,25
23:5,6,10,24
24:7,9 25:12
25:20,23 26:9
26:11,14 27:2
27:7,15,22
28:6,21 29:3
29:15 30:2,14
31:5,7,10,16
31:23 32:3,19
34:3,23 35:4
35:12,13,17
36:13 37:14
38:3 39:3,11
39:18 40:21

Alderson Reporting Company

18:15 33:25
36:2,3,6 43:3
45:7 49:14,16
49:17

known 18:16

19:15 20:4,16
34:6,7 35:1
40:19 49:11,12
50:1 51:4 52:3
knows 25:15,16

25:19 43:14

L

lack 36:6 50:19
Lampf 3:23 4:13
4:13 13:10,14
13:22 14:2
24:6,20,24

Landau 1:16 2:3

2:12 3:6,7,9
4:22 5:16,19
6:19 7:16 8:6
9:5,18,22 10:6
10:12,23 11:24
12:7,16 13:6
13:25 14:2,9
14:14 15:7,17
15:24 16:3,13
16:17,23 17:14
19:7,11 20:7
27:23 42:14
48:2,3,5 52:4
Landau's 28:21
landmark 14:2
language 23:22

24:18,21,24
25:4 26:7,24
27:4 32:20
38:11 40:4
41:12

large 16:9
late 27:10
Laughter 14:1

31:9,22

law 8:11 21:13
28:14,17 30:9
32:10,11 41:17

Official

58

41:18

lawnmower

46:20,21

lawsuit 3:14

35:23

lawyer 43:13
leads 31:17
learn 45:14
left 5:25
legal 20:23
legislates 17:21
legislation 7:17
legislative 38:8
legitimacy 21:3
Lending 41:11
length 21:1
lengthy 21:8
lesson 5:3
let's 6:22 13:4
17:22 46:18
48:16

level 36:19
liability 5:24

12:2,6 29:9,19
32:17 37:19
41:21 46:23

liable 12:3 16:18

30:20

light 50:16
likelihood 16:12
limit 3:24 4:1,3
4:15,20,20,21
4:23 5:1,2 6:5
6:25 7:2,4,20
9:9 11:4,7
12:15 14:5
15:3,3 23:15
23:23 24:13
25:4

limitation 7:12

7:13 8:21
15:12 25:10
40:11 47:10

limitations 4:17

5:18 6:1,14
7:10 8:3,15,24
9:2 10:14 13:5

21:24 22:12
23:3,4,7 24:19
24:23 27:1,4,8
30:21 32:8,21
33:6,17,18
39:5 40:24
41:3,9 45:25
46:10,13 47:6
47:18

limits 4:13 5:21

13:11 18:14

listed 35:9
litany 46:23
literal 48:10
literature 21:2

35:19

litigation 14:19

19:19 36:16
43:11 50:15
51:19,21
little 10:1
Litzler 18:12,18
18:23 42:7,11
42:18,23,25
43:20 44:6,11
44:16,19 45:4
49:13
LLC 1:4
location 34:12
lock-up 20:12

20:15,15,17,20
51:14,16

logic 10:9 32:16
logical 40:1
long 6:2 43:12
look 6:12 8:24

10:21,24 11:14
13:4,10 15:15
17:22 20:8,11
21:23 23:22
24:1,17 28:7
34:18,19,21
38:24 39:16
43:23 44:4
47:9 51:6,9,14

looked 22:8

34:11

looking 8:21
13:17 25:1
28:25 30:12
44:9

looks 13:5 49:14

49:21

loses 46:21
lot 5:22 8:22

48:12
lots 21:4
lower 43:17

44:24

M

magic 4:25 11:8
majority 13:20
making 31:7,8
Management

36:11

manner 10:20
matter 1:12

12:13 21:12
22:1 25:19
28:3,10 32:6
32:16,19 52:7

mean 6:15,16

9:25 10:7
11:16,20 24:5
24:14 25:24
28:7 34:25
36:13 39:4
42:11

meaning 9:12
10:4 24:17

means 18:7 26:4

26:20 46:3
mechanical

48:10

Mendell 40:7
mentioned
18:12 35:9

Merck 4:16 24:6
24:20 25:24,24
36:2

Merck-like 36:8
merely 42:2
Microsoft 50:11

50:17

middle 31:20
44:25 45:9

minimum 18:4
minutes 48:2
misconduct

28:15 38:10
misses 12:18
missing 20:1

model 47:10
money 10:8 42:3

50:2

42:4

month 46:19
months 15:4,16

19:21 36:4
motion 20:24
21:8 29:6,12
51:7

motivation

41:20

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
nature 9:13,19
nearly 12:14
necessarily

29:24

necessary 35:13
need 7:7 13:8
16:7,8 34:23
48:19

never 30:21

31:14,17 41:24
44:2

new 12:2,5

35:21

nice 16:15 31:24
night 16:7 42:16

45:9

nine 46:25 47:4
Ninth 3:18 4:7
17:7,9 42:9
47:21 49:2
50:3

nonintentional

27:21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

59

plaintiff's 9:20

30:24

pleadings 19:14

principles 22:23

normal 19:9

23:3

normally 22:19
norms 17:18
note 31:24 41:23
noted 14:25
notice 17:15
28:2 33:22
44:7

notion 32:6 37:8

37:10 41:21

notwithstandi...

34:17,18

November 1:10
number 3:4

34:21

numbers 8:19

O
O 2:1 3:1
objective 11:16

44:9

obligation 28:24

29:1,14 30:7
36:10 41:5

Occam's 44:17
occasion 13:10
occupied 31:15

31:20

occur 33:2 38:23
occurred 47:2
occurs 33:1

42:15

Ocwen 41:10
odd 9:23
offenses 12:9
offer 42:21
officer 33:12
officers 33:16
Oh 35:4 38:21
Okay 31:3,14
35:4 39:22
operate 11:21
opinion 8:13
35:10 37:6
40:7 41:10
45:17 51:21

52:1

opposed 9:9
opposite 30:23
opposition 21:7
oral 1:12 2:2,5,8
3:7 21:17 32:1

ordinary 6:14

13:5 21:23
22:12 26:25
27:3

ought 36:8

42:18 44:17

outer 4:15,21,24

5:2 6:4 7:2,4
7:20 11:4 15:3
23:22 24:22
25:4

outside 39:21
out-and-out
12:1 17:2

out-and-out-f...

overrule 25:21
over-inclusive

11:1

7:23

owner 33:12
owners 33:15

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 12:20

37:5

pages 20:25
51:11,25

parade 38:21
part 6:23 7:18
18:6,22 28:22
43:3 50:2
51:16

particular 19:22

21:10 22:21
23:12,17 34:12
36:2 39:16
particularly

18:14

party 43:17
patch 13:23

penalty 42:2
Pennsylvania

45:1

penny 38:13
people 6:6 12:20
12:22,22 16:8
39:18,20 45:8
percent 32:14

33:15

period 3:25 4:24
5:2 11:4 13:18
14:13 25:18
26:7,21,23
33:7 39:12
47:18

person 29:17
30:18 34:6,6
persons 3:14
petition 45:2
Petitioner 27:18

27:19

Petitioners 1:5

1:17 2:4,13 3:8
22:3 23:21
24:15 25:3,13
27:24 48:4
phrase 22:17
phrased 22:18

23:8 24:1

pick 13:1
picked 21:22
piece 20:1
place 27:23

28:25 39:17
43:12 44:4
placed 42:13

45:13

plain 4:17 36:8
plainly 35:15

49:11

plaintiff 3:20

4:3 8:17 14:12
14:16,16 17:2
18:7,8 21:12
25:15,16,19
28:2 29:5,11
29:13 30:21

31:17 32:11
37:25 38:4
40:25 43:4
46:14,15 47:1
47:8 49:22

plaintiffs 20:3,6

20:13 30:24
43:7 49:12
50:19

15:9

plead 29:5,11
pleaded 21:11

29:13

20:9,10

please 3:10
21:19 32:4
plenty 48:22
plus 7:2 44:8
point 4:12 5:19

6:20 8:7,14
10:23 17:4
24:16 25:8
27:17,18 28:22
29:4 30:3
32:24,25 40:25
41:3 50:18
51:2

points 3:22 4:6

35:19 48:6
position 5:14
10:14 14:3
27:21,24 30:18
30:23 31:17
34:4,4 38:22
42:17 44:20
45:2

positions 8:5
Posner 8:13

12:7

Posner's 12:17
possibly 15:10
potential 14:12

29:8

potentially
13:19 19:5

precisely 48:8
precluded 4:5
prefer 18:24
premise 31:6

35:25

present 36:20
presumption
7:13 21:25

prevent 12:10

price 12:11,12
primary 34:13
principal 16:21

42:4

47:22

prior 35:18
private 30:11
probably 19:16

46:19

problem 7:9
9:11 17:16
39:17 45:23

proceed 3:6
proceedings

14:21

product 46:23
profit 3:15 9:14

9:15 32:23
33:8,8,9,11
38:13 39:6
41:24

profits 3:13
29:25 36:4
48:17,18
prohibition

23:19

prominent

41:17 50:15

prong 4:24

23:23 24:22
41:16

prongs 25:1
pronouncement

45:15

prophylactic

7:22 9:24

Alderson Reporting Company

11:12,16 48:9
proposition 8:12

41:6 45:18
questioning

Official

60

receive 32:8
received 9:14

35:22

recited 35:20
recklessly 37:4
recognition

recognized 3:23

13:16

33:5

records 14:17
recover 3:13
recovers 32:12
46:15,16 47:8

refers 33:11

35:10

reflect 17:17
regard 25:14
regarding 21:2

regardless 17:5

36:19

34:5

regime 50:21
regular 39:5
rejected 45:1
Reliance 38:11

45:17,18 47:12
47:22

rely 41:15,16
relying 8:18

21:7

remand 4:8 19:9

21:10

remedy 27:9
repeatedly

44:24

replay 19:18
report 3:17

17:11 29:10
30:1 33:2
48:18

reported 11:18
11:23 42:22
46:2,4

reporting 29:8

29:14 46:6
reports 14:11
repose 3:25 4:24

5:2 6:18 7:20
8:1,9 9:8 10:10
10:18 11:4,11
11:12,25 12:19
12:21 13:7,8
13:13,21 14:5
14:7 17:5,19
22:15,17 23:25
24:19,25 25:5
25:5,10 26:8
26:23 27:12
32:9,21 33:19
37:16,18 38:6
41:9,14 46:1
48:6,11,16,22

require 9:24

41:16

required 10:17
16:4,22 29:10
30:1 45:7

requirement
10:20 40:7
requirements
10:16 18:5

requires 15:19
43:1,2,3 44:11
requiring 40:24
rescission 41:13
research 21:9

37:11

reserve 21:14
respect 4:22 6:3
6:22 7:1,21 8:2
18:11,18 45:16
50:5 51:3
respond 8:7
Respondent

1:22 2:10 32:2

Respondents
3:18 19:22

responds 51:7
response 41:7

43:16

responses 34:10
responsibilities

16:18

rest 33:25

restrictive 13:19
result 27:20

results 42:23

46:10

44:14

return 42:4
reveal 44:3
reverse 4:7
Review 41:17,18
rewrite 3:21
right 6:11 19:6

20:3 24:7,7
26:6 27:12
28:6 29:18
30:11,22 31:19
35:2,3 41:13
43:3,14 46:17
51:11

rights 42:11
rigid 49:2
rise 18:20 19:5

28:5 50:9

robbery 42:2
rule 5:5,5,7,10
6:6 9:6 17:10
17:13,14 18:16
18:19,24 24:13
28:1 34:11
36:1,9 38:11
38:25,25 40:12
41:15 42:19,24
42:25 43:17,18
43:19,21 44:7
44:9,11,14,16
44:18,19 45:3
49:15

rules 6:2 18:25

44:13

run 15:13 17:11

32:22,24,25
33:21 39:9
running 34:1
runs 22:5 24:12

31:14 40:12
48:7

S

Alderson Reporting Company

19:17

prospectus
20:17 37:5

protected 39:23
prove 4:4
provide 32:16

provided 11:4

provides 33:7

52:1

33:16

40:5

provision 6:13
6:15,18 7:8,22
10:25 11:20
13:4,4 15:2
24:9 25:7
29:20 48:20

provisions 5:13
6:1,3,4,24,25
7:5 9:2 11:1
25:6 26:15

public 15:14,18

15:19

publicly 20:16
purchase 36:4

40:16 45:6
purchased

purely 11:12

43:11

19:4

purpose 45:21
purposes 21:23

43:11 49:17
put 22:6 34:12
puts 13:3 46:11
puzzle 20:1
p.m 52:6
Q

question 8:8
11:3,5 14:8
15:22 21:24
27:13 28:16
29:22 30:3
33:10 36:21

49:15

questions 21:15

47:24 48:12
49:19

quick 48:6
quiet 44:22
quotations 52:2
quoted 8:11

R

R 3:1
raised 38:20

41:6

raises 11:5
ran 22:10,14
Razor 44:17
reach 27:19
read 3:24 23:13

36:10

reading 10:10
reads 7:9 8:4
real 11:2
realization

realized 3:16

32:23

48:18

really 5:3,11
12:13 20:4
30:19 38:4
49:1,4 50:15
50:22

reason 11:24

18:9 22:6 26:7
28:23 37:21
46:14,16

reasonable 18:8

31:20 34:6
36:7 49:24
50:1

reasonably 18:9

35:1 39:8,24
40:25

REBUTTAL

2:11 48:3

rebutted 21:25

Official

61

see 13:11 15:15

3:5

S 2:1 3:1
safety 7:2,7
sale 45:6
sales 36:4
sanctions 29:19
saying 18:24
29:1,2 31:10
50:19 51:23,24

says 7:10 8:15
9:25 17:10,15
18:19 20:13
21:9 22:20
24:2,4 25:24
26:19 27:9
34:16 46:1
51:25

Scalia 3:3,9

13:22 21:19
22:25 23:6,10
25:12,20 26:14
27:2,15,22
31:23 32:3
34:23 35:4,13
38:3 45:23
46:9 48:1 52:4

Scalia's 26:11
Scheindlin 52:1
Scheindlin's
35:10 37:6
51:21

scholarly 37:11
se 18:20
Seattle 1:21
SEC 14:18,18
15:24 16:4
17:8

second 4:1 17:12
17:14,16 18:10
18:11,18 20:19
23:20 27:18
31:3 33:7
41:16 42:11
secret 20:18
section 3:11,17
3:24 4:1 7:17
7:20 9:1 11:13
13:12 14:23,24

15:11 17:11
18:21 19:2
29:5,18 48:9
sections 11:2
securities 1:3
3:4,12 14:15
14:16 15:19
17:2 32:10
36:16 44:3

19:17 24:1
31:1 34:21
39:19 51:15
seeking 44:9
seen 46:18
select 45:20

47:13

selling 16:5,6
17:1 37:23
sense 10:18

11:10 12:18
32:16 43:6
48:21

sentence 33:7,11
separate 29:21
serve 47:6
serves 45:21

47:14

set 4:15 6:4 7:19

12:15 51:11
sets 4:20 24:13
Seventh 8:13
SG's 42:20,21
share 45:6
shareholder
15:15 18:9
34:17,21 36:7
36:10 40:18
45:13 49:25,25
50:1

shareholders
9:16 34:13
39:16 40:15
shares 16:6,9

40:8,17

shorten 6:9,25
shorter 26:17,18

short-swing
3:13,15,20
45:21 47:15

show 11:9 21:12

48:21 52:2
side 31:11,11
37:15 50:24

signed 37:4
Simmonds 1:7

simple 39:12

40:1,3

simply 11:16
single-sentence

33:14

sir 35:3 43:5
sit 47:24
situation 5:23
six 36:4
slice 20:22
slow 44:16
solely 8:19
Solicitor 1:18
somebody 10:8

12:3 29:16
31:1 43:10,14
50:10

somebody's

36:14

sooner 7:3 25:15
sorry 36:5
SOTOMAYOR

4:11 9:11,19
10:3,9,13
15:14,21 16:1
16:11,15,20
35:12,17 36:13
37:14 42:20

special 4:19 39:5

specific 26:24

40:14

51:3

specifically

51:15

specified 3:14
speculation

45:22

speedy 44:15
Spring 37:11
squeeze 38:13
stage 20:5 29:6

29:12

standard 36:20
standards 46:23
standing 40:7,13

40:14,16
stands 14:2
stand-alone
7:18 24:9

start 8:21 17:10

started 11:6

21:21

15:13

State 22:10

25:22 46:19

statement 13:16
statements

10:17

States 1:1,13,20
2:7 21:18 39:1

State's 46:22
statute 3:16,19
4:17,19 5:17
6:1,14,18,24
7:18 8:1,2,3,9
8:15,20 9:2,8
9:23,24 10:10
10:14,18 11:10
13:5,13,21
14:4,7 15:12
17:19 21:22,24
22:10,12,14,17
23:2,4,7,14,25
24:10,19,22,23
24:25 25:11
26:12,25 27:4
27:8 28:1
30:20 31:14
32:8,21,21
33:17,18,19
34:16 37:16,18
37:19 38:6
39:5,9,12,22
40:5,6,11,23

40:24 41:3,8,9
41:14,25 45:19
45:24,25 46:10
46:12 47:6
statutes 7:10
8:24 22:8,24
23:11,15,16
24:5,20 27:6
27:10 47:10

statutorily

28:15

statutory 10:19

24:17 28:18
30:9 33:14
34:2 50:7
step 11:14
stock 12:11,12
32:13 37:23
43:12 45:7

stop 24:25
strange 13:17

strategic 12:10

45:24

12:25

strength 25:13
strict 29:19

strong 28:22

37:18

37:15

structural 6:16

6:20 23:21
24:25 26:10

structure 5:8,11

6:22 22:2
24:18,21 25:6
25:7

structures 24:6
struggled 49:7
subject 4:18

7:13 22:12,15
23:4 41:19

subjective 43:17

43:18,19,21

submitted 52:5

52:7

subsequent 40:9
substantive 21:4

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

62

suddenly 16:25
sue 7:3,5,6 27:10

31:17

suffered 37:25

suffers 32:12

38:4

40:5

sufficiently 29:5

29:11,13

suggest 13:2

32:14

Suisse 1:3 3:4
suit 7:10 26:12

27:2 33:8,9
43:13

suits 12:11,13

30:25

support 44:18
supposed 11:22

32:22 49:9

Supreme 1:1,13
sure 5:16 13:14
surely 7:25
survive 29:6
suspicious 16:24
sweep 38:10
sweeping 38:12
symposium

36:12 37:12
51:5

T

T 2:1,1
take 10:13 26:4
27:21 30:18,23
46:18 50:25
takes 5:9,14

43:12

talked 5:13
talking 28:13
talks 51:14
technical 19:4
teenager 46:20
tell 10:9 13:2
35:17 36:13

tells 32:21
ten 46:25

term 23:8
terminate 27:8
terms 8:19 18:3
text 5:8 13:2
22:1 24:17

textual 6:21 8:8

8:19 22:5
47:20

textually 9:19
24:13 33:3
Thank 21:16
31:23 48:1,5
52:3,4

theme 48:7
theories 12:17

13:1

theory 12:8,17

12:23,25 20:12
20:23 21:10
51:10,17 52:2

they'd 22:13
thing 4:16 8:19

11:14 13:6
16:1,16 18:18
38:22 44:11,21
50:13

things 6:19 7:16
9:23 17:1 19:8
20:9 50:16

think 5:16 6:13
6:17 7:11,19
8:6,18 9:5,7
10:12,18,23
11:13 13:9
17:4 18:13
19:6 22:19
23:6,10 24:10
24:14,15,22
25:8,12 26:19
26:22 27:16,19
27:22 28:12,19
28:21,22 29:4
29:22 30:8
34:3 38:3
39:20,21 44:6
46:13 47:21
48:10,21,25

49:11,14,19
thinking 13:3

28:7,10

thinks 30:19

31:1,13

third 26:19,25
thought 6:2

28:24 30:3,3

three 26:15

36:12

ticking 33:23
tiered 24:6
Tilden 1:21 2:9
31:25 32:1,3
33:4 34:9 35:3
35:5,15,24
36:17 37:20
38:7 39:10,14
40:3,21 41:2
42:21 43:5,9
43:15 46:7,12
48:1

time 3:24 4:1,3

4:23 5:1,21 6:9
6:23,25 9:8
13:11,18 14:5
21:14 22:5,11
22:21 23:12,13
23:15 27:3,4
27:11 32:15,22
38:2 40:8
44:22 45:5
46:4 48:23
timely 10:20
times 33:5
timing 12:11
today 3:23 14:4

42:15 44:22
45:8 50:10
51:4

toe 46:21
toes 46:25 47:4

47:5

told 28:17,19
34:17 35:22
39:16 44:4
47:3

tolled 17:10
23:15 27:5
28:1 39:11
tolling 4:2,19
5:6,15 7:14
10:21 17:18,23
17:25 18:4,13
18:20,24 19:1
19:5 22:1,13
22:15 23:4,9
23:13,17 24:2
24:3,4 30:5,16
39:15 48:25
49:3,9,18,20
50:9,24
ton 21:9
trade 29:9,25
traded 15:16
trades 11:18

14:13

trading 11:2
42:15 45:10
47:2,15

tradition 48:14
traditional

17:17 18:13
27:25

traditionally

4:18 18:4

transaction 3:20

36:3 41:13
45:9 46:2
transactions

38:14

trap 38:15
treat 23:2,3 39:4
treated 12:8
22:11 24:23

trial 43:1 44:12
trigger 14:24

triggered 9:3
triggering 32:13

36:8

34:1

true 4:23 8:23
20:3,6 27:14
29:15 51:18

Alderson Reporting Company

truth 12:18 13:2

41:11

TRW 5:4 11:8
try 11:9 13:23

20:22

trying 12:19
22:21 31:8
Tuesday 1:10
turn 7:24 12:20

13:7 14:6
16:12

two 3:22 4:6,13
6:19 7:16 13:1
18:3,4 19:8
20:9 22:3
30:14 36:7
45:18 46:5
48:6

Twombly 29:7
two-prong 6:3
7:5 11:7 15:2
23:23 25:6
two-pronged

4:23 5:1,11 8:4
two-tiered 24:21
typical 8:8,15

U

unanimously

45:1

uncover 45:11
underlying 6:8

28:3 51:17

underprice 35:7

underpricing-...

37:10

20:21

4:23

8:14

underscores

underscoring

understand 22:3

23:20 27:18
30:2 39:4

understanding

6:12 7:12
10:15 38:1

understate

25:13

understood

10:19

underwriter
37:2 38:20
51:10

underwriters
19:24 20:13
21:2 32:5
33:20 35:6
36:22,25 41:21
43:16 45:3
50:12 51:19
undetectable

undisputed

45:14

19:14

unique 32:10
33:20 47:7

United 1:1,13,20
2:7 21:18 39:1

unnecessary

unreasonable

unrevealed

untimely 4:9

21:11

19:2

36:25

21:12

38:16

unwary 38:15

upshot 4:6
urge 51:5
USA 1:3
use 4:25 5:1
6:24 7:15
usually 28:7
U.S 8:25
V

v 1:6 3:4 40:7

41:10

valve 7:2,7
VANESSA 1:7
vanilla 4:17 13:5

36:1,8

Official

63

variant 45:4
various 13:11
vast 12:2,5
version 44:17
view 27:25

42:23 45:15
50:5,8

violate 32:18
violated 29:14

29:21 32:7
violates 32:17
violation 16:19
19:4 26:3,5,13
27:20 29:8,23
29:24 36:18
50:6,7

violations 8:3
virtually 39:1
virtue 42:9
W
wait 6:7
waiver 4:18 7:14
Wall 1:18 2:6

21:17,19 22:19
23:5,10 24:5,8
24:10 25:20
26:6,10,22
27:13,22 28:6
28:12 29:3,18
30:8 31:5,15
31:19,23

want 6:6,8 27:17

31:5 32:24
38:5,23 43:15
46:3,11

wanted 7:21

11:11,17 14:23
17:20 32:7
wants 43:13
wary 38:17,17
Washington 1:9

1:16,19,21
wasn't 13:23
25:24 28:25
waters 50:22
way 10:21 17:2

17:7 19:20
22:18 31:2,2
33:5 46:11
48:10,15

ways 14:15,15

18:14

week 8:14
weight 22:7
went 34:19
weren't 29:10
29:25 42:1

We'll 3:3
we're 28:7,10

29:2

we've 8:5 22:25

22:25 31:20

whatsoever 24:4
whistle 14:21

16:13

Whittaker

38:25 42:7,9
42:18,22,24
43:19 44:15,18
45:4

Whittaker-eq...

Whittaker-like

44:10

44:9

whoa 25:3
win 13:8
wonder 40:13
wonderful 41:18
wording 47:17
words 4:25 7:15

11:8 25:9
41:25 42:25
49:24

work 33:25

35:25 38:20
41:19

worked 13:12

39:3 42:9
works 42:12
world 43:25

44:2

worse 31:18
worst 31:3

wouldn't 4:2

7:21 10:19,20
19:9 39:24
48:19
write 8:1
written 23:14
27:1 35:20
wrong 31:12
39:13 43:25
44:1

wrote 26:25

X

x 1:2,8 8:11

26:13 27:3,11
37:23,23
Y

Y 8:11
year 4:14 6:9
37:12 48:20

years 3:15,16,19
4:15 6:5,7 7:4
7:6,6,11 8:10
8:16 15:3
17:24 21:6
25:15,16,17,18
26:2,2,4,13,16
26:18,19,20,20
30:22 35:21,21
36:16 38:24,24
39:2 40:9,19
41:12 44:24
45:14 46:1,4,6
48:17,19,22
51:12

yield 42:23

Z

Z 8:11

0
02 35:10
03 35:10
09 37:12
1

1 4:14 21:1

48:20
10 33:15
10-1261 1:5 3:4
11:04 1:14 3:2
12-year 24:13
12:01 52:6
16 7:17 11:23
34:21 36:5

16(a) 3:17 10:17

11:17,20,23
14:11,24 15:4
15:11,11,23
17:11 18:21
19:2 20:14
29:9,18,21
32:7,15,18
33:2,6,13
34:10 42:9,10
49:6 50:7

16(b) 3:11,24

7:1 11:13 12:9
13:13,15,18
14:12,24 29:5
29:8,12,22
32:9,10,14,17
32:20 33:6,16
33:18 34:14
36:5,18,20
37:25 38:4,14
40:8,15 41:22
41:24 42:8,11
42:12 43:8
45:17 46:15
47:1,8,18 48:8
48:9

16(b)'s 4:1
1658 9:1
18(c) 7:21 11:3

12:3

19th 18:1
1934 3:11 5:20

10:24 38:8
45:6

1954 44:25
1962 45:17
1986 50:11

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

64

64 38:23,24

7
700 40:16
77 38:24,24 39:2

44:24

8

80 51:9
83 51:10
9

9(e) 7:21 11:3

12:3

99 32:14

2

2 3:15,16,19 7:5
7:6,11 8:10,15
21:1,6 25:16
25:17,18 26:2
26:18,19,20,20
44:8,8 45:14
46:1,4 48:17
48:19,22 51:12
2-year 3:24 4:1

14:5,13
20s 38:10
2000 51:13
2004 21:5 51:8

51:12

2005 21:5
2009 51:5
2011 1:10
21 2:7
29 1:10

3

3 2:4 4:15 6:5,7
7:4 15:3 25:15
26:16 40:19
41:12

3-year 7:2
310 37:5
32 2:10
34 7:18
356 51:25
358 52:1
4

4 11:18 15:18

48:2
48 2:13

5

5 18:23 26:2,4
50 30:22
58 20:25 51:6
59 51:15
6
6 15:4,16
61 51:15
63 41:18

Alderson Reporting Company

