Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
WYETH, 
:
                          
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 06-1249 
                       
DIANA LEVINE. 
: 
                   
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Monday, November 3, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:06 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of

 the Petitioner. 

EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,

 Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
 the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the
 Petitioner. 

DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of

 the Respondent. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                     

3


EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.


 On behalf of the United States, as amicus
 curiae, supporting the Petitioner 

              

14


DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondent 

                    

24


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioner 

                    

51


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:06 a.m.)
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument 

first this morning in Case 06-1249, Wyeth v. Levine.

 Mr. Waxman.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. WAXMAN:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 This case concerns conflict pre-emption 

under the Supremacy Clause, and the conflict presented 
here is stark.  Repeatedly over the years, the FDA 
approved Phenergan injection as safe and effective under 
all the conditions and methods of use described in the 
labeling, including what is referred to as "IV push" 
injection.  Yet a State jury, evaluating the same risk 
that the FDA had considered, determined that the precise 
labeling that FDA had required Wyeth to use in fact 
rendered Phenergan "unreasonably dangerous."  That --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Just at the outset, I'll 
just make one comment.  You argue that it's impossible 
for Wyeth to comply with the State law and at the same 
time the Federal label.  As a textual matter, as a 
logical matter, I just -- I don't understand that.  I 
think I could design a label that's completely 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

consistent and that meets the requirements that the 
Respondents wish to urge.

 Now, if you want to say that any alteration 

of the label violates Federal law, that's something 
else.  But as a textual matter, as a logical matter, as 
a semantic matter, I don't agree with it.

 MR. WAXMAN:  Well, let me make sure, because 
I do think we do agree, and I want to make sure that I'm 
understood, Justice Kennedy.  I think what you've 
articulated is the test which is, is it possible for a 
regulated party to comply at the same time with both 
Federal law and State law?  In other words, could they 
use, as they were required by Federal law to do, to use 
the precise label that in approving the application in 
1998 the FDA required Wyeth to use, and also use the 
label that the Vermont jury determined should be used, 
and that was stated in the complaint and in the opening 
and the closing a statement that you may not, should not 
use IV administration or IV push, in other words that 
you should contra -- the label should contra-indicate 
something --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Waxman --
MR. WAXMAN:  -- that --
JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It didn't say -- it 

didn't say IV across the board.  It said IV push is the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

claim, and that was -- as I understand this, the FDA was 
aware of the IV use and a certain risk.  But did it 
ever, ever discreetly consider IV push versus IV 
administered the usual way by a drip bag?

 MR. WAXMAN:  Yes it did, Justice Ginsburg, 

and I want to cite you to the portions of the record 
that demonstrate that it did.  But before I do so, I 
just want to underscore a point that I think is clear 
from both our brief and the Solicitor General's brief, 
which is that isn't the test of preemption in any event. 
The question is what did the labeling say and upon what 
information was the labeling decision made.

 But as to your particular question, there 
are -- first of all, there was testimony in the record 
from multiple parties, including experts from both 
sides, that the FDA was aware of all of the forms of 
administration and the risk, including IV push.  Their 
experts simply disagreed with the judgment that the 
labeling requires.  But most saliently, the labeling in 
this case, which is reproduced, in sort of microscopic 
size unfortunately, on the last two pages of the 
petitioner appendix and the last two pages of the joint 
appendix, have four separate reference that, as we 
explained in footnote 11 of our reply brief, only apply 
to IV push. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

There is a reference to the use of the Tubex 

system.  That is a direct IV push system.  There is a 
reference to rigid plungers and small-bore needles. 
Again nothing to do with drip.  There is a reference to 
a maximum rate of administration.  Drip is gravity.  The 
testimony in the case was that an instruction that a 
particular rate of administration not be exceeded only 
referred to IV push.  And finally, there are cautions on 
the label about how the ordinary aspiration of blood to 
see if its bright or dark, which is only done in the 
context of a needle that is being used to push something 
into a vein, is not reliable in the context of this case 
because Phenergan discolors arterial blood immediately.

 So the labeling plainly comprehended and 

warned about the specific risks of IV push 
administration, and that's not all.  There is an 
advisory -- an advisory committee in 1976 was asked to 
look at precisely the risk of arterial exposure to 
Phenergan injection or any other irritant drug that is 
administered intravenously and it made specific 
recommendations, including recommendations that go 
directly to IV push.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  How could the -- how could 
the FDA concluded that IV push was safe and effective 
when on the benefit side of this you don't have a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

life-saving drug, you have a drug that relieves nausea, 
and on the risk side you have the risk of gangrene?

 MR. WAXMAN:  I mean, there was testimony --
Justice Alito, I can go over the testimony, but there 
is -- there was testimony in this very case about those 
very circumstances in which direct IV injection is 
indicated.  And there is also test -- there is also 
evidence in the FDA record, including if you look at the 
1987 correspondence that the FDA sent to Wyeth in the 
context of talking about what warnings had to be 
provided.  The FDA provided Wyeth 20 citations to 20 
medical journals that addressed this problem, and in 
footnote 13 of our reply brief we've cited the ones that 
specifically address the circumstances in which IV push 
administration is an important tool.  The point here is, 
I think, that --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But that doesn't answer 

the question of was it -- the risk of gangrene and 
amputation is there.  No matter what benefit there was, 
how could the benefit outweigh that substantial risk?

 MR. WAXMAN:  Justice Ginsburg, this is 

labeling that is directed at medical professionals.  It 
is labeling that is directed at physicians, who have to 
be able to determine what method, what pharmaceutical 
and what method of administration to use, given the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

constellation of risks and benefits that a particular 
patient --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  The FDA was never 

concerned with risks versus benefit?

 MR. WAXMAN:  The FDA -- well, the FDA 

certainly is.  And the issue, Justice Kennedy, here is 
the FDA has to decide what information to provide to 
clinicians so that they can make judgments about what to 
use.  And it -- what it did here is it provided ample, 
lavish warnings about the risk of intra-arterial 
injection and exposure of an irritant drug like 
Phenergan to arterial blood.  It provided in the 
labeling to the physicians a cascading hierarchy of 
methods of administration.  It said intramuscular 
injection is the preferred method.  It then said with 
respect to intravenous injection that it is, as with any 
irritant drug, it is usually preferable to inject it 
into an IV infusion set that is known to be running 
properly, in other words where a line has already been 
established into the vein and the IV push occurs into 
the line that's already established.

 All that information was available to 
physicians and the FDA has to understand and does 
understand that in labeling to allow medical 
professionals to make their judgments, taking options 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

away from physicians is not always better.  It may 
not -- it may not even often be better.  What the FDA 
has to decide in terms of telling physicians what's on 
the table and what's off the table and in terms of 
what's on the table what the relevant risks are is, is 
this ever -- would this ever be medically warranted? 
The testimony in this case and in the administrative 
record was yes, there are circumstances --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I'd like you to 

address the distinction between the medical device area 
and the drug area because in the medical device area, of 
course, you have an express pre-emption clause, while 
here in contrast you don't.

 MR. WAXMAN:  Yes.  I mean, I think, 

Mr. Chief Justice, you've identified the respect in 
which this is difference than the medical device area. 
But for the salient purposes, I think the Riegel case 
directly points the Court to the nature of the 
determination that the FDA makes with respect to class 3 
drugs.  It goes through the same preclearance process. 
As we pointed out in our brief and as I think Justice 
Scalia's opinion in Riegel points out, the balancing 
time-intensive, data- intensive inquiry for medical 
devices was patterned after what is done for drugs, and 
it reflects a balancing of risks and benefits of the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

particular drug in light of the conditions and methods 
of administration prescribed in the labeling.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  If that's true you 

would have expected the Federal Drug Act to have a 
similar express pre-emption provision.  And one reason 
perhaps that it didn't is that when the Drug Act was 
passed you had an established background of State 
actions; when the Medical Device Act was passed you 
didn't.

 MR. WAXMAN:  Well, let me address both the 

established background of State actions and then the 
pre-emption clause difference, if I may.  The Respondent 
and her amici have identified 97 cases going back 150 
years in which tort actions have been brought with 
respect to pharmaceuticals.  Very few of those cases --
and they are recent -- are implicated by the rule that 
the Vermont Supreme Court applied in this case, which is 
where a fully informed FDA, informed of all the 
information that Wyeth had, approved a labeling 
standard, but a court looking at the same evidence can 
reach a different conclusion about what is on the label. 
The most -- those cases I believe all post-date 
Cipollone.  Many of them postdate Geier.  And by my 
count, there are fewer than 20 such cases out of all of 
the cases that have been decided and those issues --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that issue had never come up and never could have come 
up when Congress enacted the 1938 Act, because it was 
only the 1938 Act that established a drug-specific, 
preclearance regime, and really in 1962, in which the 
FDA was required not just to evaluate safety in terms of 
licensing the distribution of the drug, but to balance 
safety against effectiveness.

 And so the -- the constellation of common 
law cases -- I mean, let me just say we are -- we are 
not seeking here a rule of field preemption.  We are not 
seeking to preclude tort remedies for conduct that 
violates Federal law.

 What we are saying here is -- and this goes, 

I think, finally to your point about the express 
pre-emption clause -- the presence of expressed 
pre-emption clauses or the absence, the presence of a 
savings clause or the absence, does not and cannot 
affect the operation of conflict pre-emption under the 
Federal Constitution.

 Now, members of this Court are concerned 

about applying a broad, vague, or free-wheeling analysis 
of implied conflict pre-emption, but this case is 
heartland.  A jury was asked to look at the same 
information and conclude that the precise language that 
the FDA just didn't allow, the FDA required Wyeth to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

use, rendered that drug unreasonably unsafe.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, it required it 

because that is what the FDA had approved as a label. 
But as -- excuse me -- as I understand it, the -- the 
company, Wyeth, could have gone back to the FDA at any 
time and said, either based on experience or just our 
rethinking of the data that we have, we think the label 
ought to be changed to say "Don't use IV push."  Wyeth 
could have done that at any time, and it simply didn't 
do it.

 And the -- the reason I raise this is 

because it could have done it at any time, where, going 
back to Justice Kennedy's first question, where is the 
conflict?

 MR. WAXMAN:  The liability in this case was 
not predicated on the fact that Wyeth didn't go to the 
-- remember, the FDA had approved this label two years 
before Miss Levine was injured.  In approving the label, 
it rejected stronger proposed language that Wyeth had 
presented.  There was nothing that was -- Wyeth was --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  But as I understand it, 
Wyeth's argument is not this argument.  Wyeth is not 
saying the reason there is a conflict here is that we 
tried to give the kind of warning that the Vermont jury, 
in effect, says we should have given and the FDA didn't 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

allow us to do it, so that, in fact, there is a conflict 
between a specific rejection by the FDA of the Vermont 
rule and the rule that the Vermont jury applied.

 MR. WAXMAN:  Right.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  As I understand it, Wyeth's 
argument is:  Whatever is on the label, in fact, is the 
standard of conflict.  It doesn't matter whether we 
tried or could have tried or didn't try.  You simply 
look at the label and you look at what the Vermont jury 
did; and if there is a -- if there is a difference 
between them, there is a conflict.  Am I right about 
your argument?

 MR. WAXMAN:  Yes, you are right.  We -- we 
have both an impossibility form of conflict because, in 
the absence of any new information or new analyses of 
old information, we could not make the change in advance 
of getting approval.  And we also have an -- an 
objects-and-purposes form of conflict pre-emption 
because the Vermont jury decided on the same information 
that the labeling that the FDA had approved and required 
was unreasonably unsafe.

 And we cannot have a world in which the very 

day after an intensive process -- the FDA says you may 
distribute this drug, but you must use this specific 
language -- either, A, manufacturers can just run in and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

change the label and ask for permission down the road; 
or, B, that a State jury -- let's take the easier case 
-- a State legislature or 50 State legislatures can 
decide:  Because you could have gone back and asked, we 
can impose an obligation on you that you must have done 
so or must have changed the labeling.  That just is 
inconsistent with --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, is it -- is it strict 

liability or negligence?  In other words, are they 
saying you must have done so, or are they saying because 
you could have done so and didn't you did not conform to 
the standard of care?

 MR. WAXMAN:  Either a negligence theory or a 

strict-liability theory would be pre-empted.

 May I reserve the balance of my time.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Mr. Kneedler.

 ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
 ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,

 AS AMICUS CURIAE,

 SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 The State law duties on which Respondent's 

tort claims are based are pre-empted because they 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

conflict with the FDA's determination that Phenergan 
injection is safe and effective under the conditions of 
use recommended or suggested in the labeling.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Kneedler, at the 

outset, would you clarify something that is central, I 
think, to this case?  Some of the briefs tell us that 
this represents a change of policy on the part of the 
FDA, that in fact the FDA once approved and said torts 
were -- tort suits were a helpful adjunct to the FDA's 
own efforts to protect consumers.  They helped because 
they prodded manufacturers to -- to disclose risks that 
were either unknown or under- evaluated.  Was that once 
the FDA's policy; and, if so, when did it change?
 MR. KNEEDLER:  The -- the FDA, to my 

knowledge, has never taken the position that -- that, as 
a general matter, a manufacturer may change a label 
without -- without the existence of new information that 
justifies a revision.  The Respondents and the amici 
relied primarily on some snippets of rule-making 
proceedings and things like that in which FDA has 
referred to the existence of tort remedies.  But we are 
not arguing for the proposition that tort remedies are 
-- are pre-empted as a general matter.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But when -- when would 

there be a tort remedy?  What -- what situation would 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

you envision?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  As Mr. Waxman mentioned, if 

-- if the State standard was the same as the Federal 
standard, there wouldn't be any conflict.  And, for 
example, if -- and not to mention the fact if there was 
adulteration of -- of the product or if the -- if the 
product in the box was not the same --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  What if they found out 

about new information which would, if properly 
considered, alter what the labeling ought to be?  Would 
there be a tort remedy for the failure to bring that new 
information to the attention of --

MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, the position we are 

arguing for here would not cover that situation, but --
but there could be a further situation of pre-emption, 
if I could just explain why.  I think --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You mean if you failed to 

provide the FDA the new information that you think 
negates the provisions on the -- on the label, you still 
couldn't be sued?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  No.  If you -- if you failed 

to provide it altogether, there would not be a -- a 
pre-emption defense if there were -- if your 
failure-to-warn claim was based on the new information 
that you didn't furnish. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

I was -- I was going to identify the 

    

And FDA has 

situation where -- and this has come up in the anti-
depressant drug situation, for example, where there is 
evolving information.  There has been a rule- making 
petition, in fact several over the years, to the FDA to 
change the labeling to warn against -- to warn about the 
possibility of suicidal ideation. 
rejected that even though it's -- it's new information 
arising after the drug was approved.  If the information 
is brought to the FDA's attention and FDA rejects the 
proposed change, then you would you have conflict 
pre-emption again.  But if the information was never 
brought to the FDA's attention in the first place, then 
-- then there would -- it would be not inconsistent with 
Federal law to have a tort suit based on that.  If it's 
-- if it's been proposed and rejected, then you're back 
with a conflict.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What if -- what if you 
brought it to the FDA's attention and the FDA just 
hasn't acted on it?  You would be authorized to change 
the label on your own.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  You would be authorized, but 

if FDA then rejects -- rejects the labeling --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I understand, but in the 
interim, you could -- could you be subject to a State 

17

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

tort suit for not changing the label when -- when you 
had the power to do so?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  I -- if -- if FDA has taken 
no action at all, then I think you -- you could be.  I 
this it's very likely that FDA would have acted by the 
-- by the time that -- I mean, I suppose there could be 
a window in there before it was approved.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But why is that -- why is 

that likely, considering the huge number of drugs?  I 
mean, one figure said that there are 11,000 drugs that 
have this approval.  Is the FDA really monitoring every 
one of those to see if there is some new information 
that should change the label?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  If I could make two points 

about that:  The first is, as I said, we are not arguing 
that there is pre-emption in a situation where there is 
new information that is not brought to FDA's attention.

 But the second point is that in the 2007 

amendments to the Act, Congress recognized the 
difficulties with this and gave FDA important new 
enforcement tools and resources to go after the problem 
of things that arise after a drug is improved --
approved, that has given FDA the authority to direct a 
change in the label, which it did not have before.

 It has given the FDA the authority to order 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

new clinical studies, and it has ordered FDA to set up a 
data system where it will get electronic notification of 
-- of adverse events.

 I -- I should point out in the -- in the one 
year since these amendments were passed, FDA has, I -- I 
think, in 21 instances ordered clinical trials.  In four 
instances it has ordered a revision of labeling.  It has 
hired 430 new employees in the Center for Drug 
Evaluation and Research to address the post-marketing 
situation.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Why isn't -- why isn't the 

fact that some certain number of people are getting 
gangrene, why isn't that new information?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  The risk -- the way FDA --
and this is set forth in the changes being affected 
regulation amendment that was --

JUSTICE BREYER:  That was all passed long 

after the events here took place, I think.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  But -- but --
JUSTICE BREYER:  So at the time, you read 

the regulation, I think a person would think that he was 
free drug manufacturer if he learned something new to 
strengthen -- strengthens the contraindication, put it 
in.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  As FDA explained in 2008, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

when it promulgated this regulation, it's been FDA's 
long-standing interpretation that only new information 
would justify a change.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Why wouldn't that be new?
 MR. KNEEDLER:  New information means new 

information about a risk that is greater in severity or 
frequency.  If you have --

JUSTICE BREYER:  If you get a certain number 

of cases.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  There is no claim -- there is 

no claim here that either of those -- in the record in 
this case, that either of those was true.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  That's because nobody 

brought up this new information point.  So if nobody 
brought up the new information point at the trial and if 
the burden is on the manufacturer to show that it's 
pre-empted, isn't that the manufacturer's fault, because 
if you simply read the regulation, you wouldn't find any 
of all this complicated stuff about certain kinds of new 
information.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  That's a legal question not a 

factual.  And it was argued to the Vermont --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes it's a legal question.
 MR. KNEEDLER:  It was argued to the Vermont 
Supreme Court, and I don't think -- I don't think that 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Respondent -- Respondent has noted that it wasn't 
raised, but I don't think it's argued that it's waived. 
And I think for the Court to fully address this 
situation, I think it would be good to take into account 
FDA's -- certainly going forward that is the regulatory 
regime --

JUSTICE BREYER:  But we are not making an 

advisory opinion.  We are deciding this case.  And this 
case here you say new information of a certain kind 
would be okay, nobody argued it.  You read the reg, and 
it doesn't seem to make all these distinctions end of 
case.  Since the manufacturer has the burden of going 
into this, which apparently it didn't do.  So, now we 
have decided this case, and we go on to the next one.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  Okay.  If I could make just 

one further --

JUSTICE BREYER:  What's your response to 

that?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  If I could make one further 

point about that.  And that is the -- this act sets up a 
prior approval situation.  In other words, Congress 
wanted the FDA to look at the drug in advance, 
balance -- against benefits as this Court said in 
Rutherford, and -- Brown & Williamson, strike a balance 
and approve it. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

It would be fundamentally inconsistent with 

a prior approval system to have a regime in which the 
very next day State law could require the manufacturer 
to change the very labeling that FDA has struck a 
balance --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I don't understand what 
we're talking about here.  The new information was not 
brought up by either side --

MR. KNEEDLER:  Right.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- showing increased 

frequency or increased severity?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  That's correct.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Right?
 And supposedly, it was burden of the drug 

company to show --

MR. KNEEDLER:  No.  The drug company says 

it's pre-empted, and the only escape hatch from the 
preemption is new information.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You agree with -- you 

agree with Mr. Waxman that the FDA specifically 
addressed the risks and benefits of IV push as opposed 
to the risks of arterial exposures?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  It specifically addressed in 
the labeling that the FDA approved, and I think that's 
all that needs to be looked at in -- it's just as in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Riegle, where the preemption turns on that device, in 
that case, and the labeling that was presented.  Here 
the preemption turns on the labeling and the drug that 
was presented.  And FDA regulations prohibit the change 
unless there is new information.

 If I could make one other point about 

Riegle.  Riegle does contain an FDA -- an expressed 
preemption provision.  But the reason why this Court 
found preemption in Riegle under that provision is very 
instructive here, because as Mr. Waxman pointed out, the 
premarket approval process in the two situations are 
essentially the same.

 And what you had on the one hand was Federal 
action having the force of law like under the file rate 
doctrine or some administrative determination having the 
force of law approving a license or -- or a drug, a 
legal prohibition against changing that without new 
information.  And on the state side, you have a rule of 
law under the common law of torts imposing a different 
obligation.  Those are squarely termed --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  You're talking about 

changing but you can supplement without changing the 
label.

 MR. KNEEDLER:  No -- no, you cannot.  Any --
any change in the wording of -- of the label is a change 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

that requires FDA approval unless it is --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You can supplement only 

when there is new information?

 MR. KNEEDLER:  When there is new information 
and even then, it has to be in the form of a new drug --
a supplemental drug application to the agency.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, 

Mr. Kneedler.

 Mr. Frederick.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT

 MR. FREDERICK:  Thank you, Mr. Chief 

Justice.

 I'd like to start with regulation 201.80, 

which is set forth in an addendum to our brief at 19-A. 
The second sentence of which reads:  "The labeling shall 
be revised -- this is after an applicant, a sponsor has 
obtained approval of the drug label -- "it shall be 
revised to include a warning as soon as there is 
reasonable evidence of an association of a serious risk 
with a drug.  A causal relationship need not have been 
proved."

 The testimony at trial established that 

Wyeth knew or should have known from at least the '70s 
that there was a significance issue concerning IV push 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

risks.

 And, Justice Alito, in answer to your 

question --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Excuse me.  Those -- those 

risks were set forth on the labeling approved by the 
FDA.  Surely that sentence means it shall be revised to 
include a warning as soon, as soon as there is 
reasonable evidence of an association of a serious 
hazard that the FDA has not considered.  And that is not 
already addressed on the labeling.  I mean to read it 
as -- as opening up stuff that's already been considered 
by the FDA would -- would -- would make a -- a mush out 
of it.

 MR. FREDERICK:  FDA never considered any 

comparative risks of IV push versus IV drip.  The 
evidence on this was clear.  Wyeth had a --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What about the 

various portions of the label in the record that 
Mr. Waxman addressed and Mr. Kneedler, representing the 
FDA, said they specifically considered IV push risks?

 MR. FREDERICK:  What the evidence showed was 

that FDA certainly was aware that there are different 
forms of intravenous administration of drugs, but it 
never considered that the risk of IV push so greatly 
increased the risks of a catastrophic injury --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, they have to. 
When they determine that it's safe to use it under those 
circumstances that necessarily includes a consideration 
of the risk.  People can say it's safe for you to walk 
down the sidewalk.  That doesn't mean there is no risk 
that you get hit by lightning or something else.  It 
just means in evaluating them together, they determine 
that it's worth the candle in particular cases where a 
physician determines that that's the indicated method.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Mr. Chief Justice, here 

there was no way FDA could have made this determination 
because the risks of IV push are so catastrophic 
compared to the benefit which the testimony at trial 
showed --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, you're just 

contradicting the label.  The fact is they could not 
have approved that label unless they made that 
determination.

 Now, if you're telling me the FDA acted 

irresponsible -- irresponsibly, then sue the FDA.

 MR. FREDERICK:  No.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But the labeling made it 
very clear that the preferred method of administering 
this medicine was -- was -- was muscular and -- and that 
there were serious risks involved in -- in the IV push. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Moreover, your client didn't follow the 

labeling or your client's physician didn't follow the 
labeling prescription for IV push, did he?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The testimony at trial 

showed that the doctor acted with a standard of care 
that was not negligent, and that was based on expert 
testimony.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  No.  No.  Wait, wait.  He 

administered a -- a level of the drug that was vastly in 
excess of -- of -- of what the labeling said could 
safely be used for IV push.

 MR. FREDERICK:  And the testimony at trial 

showed that that had no bearing on her injury, 
because --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Had no bearing.  Are you 

serious?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Yes.  It did.  The testimony 

at trial from Dr. Green disputed that point.  Both 
courts below rejected that notion.

 But the idea that a label is set in stone 
for all time misunderstands the way the process works. 
When FDA approves a drug with a drug label, it does so 
on the basis of small clinical trials with very few, 
sometimes as few as a thousand or a couple of thousand 
people.  And when the drug is marketed and goes to lots 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and lots of people that are not healthy, that are in 
different conditions, new problems arise.  That's why 
the general -- the GAO found that over 51 percent of 
drugs have adverse drug events not known.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  You established that there 
were new problems?  I mean, if there were new problems, 
then -- then they could have simply supplemented the 
labeling.  But did you establish that there were 
problems that had not been considered already by the 
FDA?

 I mean, the labeling says, you know, that 
this is dangerous to use -- use IV push.  It made it 
very clear that it's dangerous.

 MR. FREDERICK:  That was not our burden and 
that was not how the testimony came in at trial.  But as 
the amicus brief by Dr. Budhwani, et al. at pages 54 
establishes had Wyeth been a reasonably prudent 
manufacturer over the years, it would have known that 
the risks of IV push so far outweigh any bearing 
negligible benefits, that it would have offered a 
stronger instruction, it would have moved to revise its 
label either with FDA approval or --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  It proposed a more 

restrictive label to the FDA, didn't it?  And the FDA 
said, no, you use this label.  In other words, it's --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

what you're saying was not its call.  It was the call of 
the FDA.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Footnote one of the Vermont 
Supreme Court's opinion disputes that point, because it 
says the label was different.  And if you compare what 
was submitted to FDA versus what FDA looked at, there 
was no reference to IV push risks creating the risk of 
catastrophic harm versus negligible, Justice Scalia.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I thought your -- I 
thought your theory was that this type of administration 
of the drug should not be allowed.  The label should not 
say here are the risks, here are the benefits.  You --
your jury theory was you cannot suggest in the labeling 
that physicians should have this available.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Well, as the jury was 

instructed, Mr. Chief Justice, and the evidence came in 
at trial, it was -- it was somewhat larger than that in 
the sense that a State failure to warn claim doesn't 
prescribe particular wording.  It simply says that the 
existing wording is inadequate.  And if the case comes 
to this Court --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, it simply says 
that if you go ahead with the label like this, you don't 
have to pay $10 million whenever it comes wrong.  That's 
having the effect, as our case has established, imposing 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

a limitation on the label.

 MR. FREDERICK:  But the label itself is not 
set in stone, Mr. Chief Justice.  Manufacturers change 
their labels all the time as new drug risks come in. 
And the regulations provide that the manufacturer is 
responsible not only for the label, but for monitoring 
post-market information.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So your case depends 
upon us determining that the risk at issue here that was 
presented to the jury was a new risk that the FDA did 
not consider?

 MR. FREDERICK:  No.  It's not dependent on 
that at all, Mr. Chief Justice.  It is dependent on a 
finding that the manufacturer had a duty of due care and 
it didn't live up to that.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  What if it referred to new 
drug risks, then, in your preceding sentence, where you 
are saying manufacturers change it all the time as new 
drug risks become apparent?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The testimony --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  What you mean is whether or 
not new drug risks become apparent, they have to change, 
right?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The question is what does 
the manufacturer know and when did this manufacturer 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

know it?  And here, the testimony at trial showed that 
an antinausea drug called Vistrol -- this is at page 79 
of the joint appendix -- caused amputations in two 
cases.  Pfizer voluntarily removed IV push injection for 
that drug.  This was information in Wyeth's files; Wyeth 
knew this from the 1970s; and yet it did nothing to 
change the Phenergan label.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Suppose --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  With respect to the 

obligation in this case, may I go back to an earlier 
question that Justice Scalia asked you?  And I -- I --
if you responded to this particular point, I didn't get 
it.

 He said that he understood that Wyeth had in 

fact asked the FDA to modify the label, at least to 
strengthen the warning against IV push, and that request 
was -- was denied, so that in fact that -- that created 
the conflict.  What is your response to -- to the 
factual basis for that -- for that comment?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Well, the FDA itself said in 

the Solicitor General's brief at page 25 that it was 
deemed to be a nonsubstantive change.  These were 
changes that were being made --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, regardless of what 

their, their semantic label was, was there a request at 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

least to -- to beef up the warning against using IV 
push?  And if so, did the -- did the FDA reject it and 
say no, you can't do that.

 MR. FREDERICK:  It was a different label and 

it was a different strength of warning, but it didn't 
have to do with the relative risks and benefits of IV 
push versus IV drip.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  What would it --
MR. FREDERICK:  That was the crucial point.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  What would it have said?
 MR. FREDERICK:  This is set out at footnote 
1 of the Vermont Supreme Court opinion, which is set out 
in the joint -- in the petition appendix at pages 4a to 
5a, and it goes on for two pages.  But essentially what 
the -- what the comparison was was talking about the 
preferability of injecting it through the tubing of an 
intravenous infusion set that is known to be functioning 
satisfactorily, which would suggest to most medical 
practitioners and was it the case in the trial testimony 
given by Dr. Green below, that that would suggest an IV 
drip, not IV push.

 When FDA then rejected it for -- for 
nonsubstantive reasons, it went back to the prior 
verbiage which is set out at 5a, which simply says if 
you put this drug in an artery the concentration can be 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

such that it will -- it will cause harm.

 But our point is that these kinds of risks 

come to light frequently with drugs that are on the 
market and the need to revise these labels is the duty 
of the manufacturer.  Section 314. --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But you -- you also, to be 
clear on it, as I understand it, you do not accept the 
position that the FDA puts forward, that the obligation 
depends upon the accrual of new information.
 MR. FREDERICK:  Well, how you --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  Any information, new or 
old, as I understand it, on your argument raises this 
obligation to -- to act.

 MR. FREDERICK:  I think that the dispute is 
-- is what constitutes new information, because we don't 
take issue with the notion that new information can be 
new analysis of prior submitted data; and what the 
amicus brief by Dr. Budhwani et al. Points out is that 
there was a lot of unpublished information about the 
harms of Phenergan that was known to Wyeth or should 
have been known to Wyeth in the '80s and '90s that would 
have justified a change under the CEE regulations.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, suppose the record 

showed that the FDA clearly considered whether IV push 
should be contraindicated and concluded it should not be 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and prescribed the label that now appears on the drug; 
and then, as some of the other arguments have 
referenced, the very day after the FDA made that ruling, 
Ms. Levine was injured.  Would you still -- would she 
still have a claim in your view, a non-pre-empted claim?
 MR. FREDERICK:  That be pre-empted.  And the 

reason it would be pre-empted is because the FDA would 
have considered and rejected on the basis of the same 
information or similar information the very duty that 
underlies the State claim.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  So your argument is -- is 

predicated on the existence of new information.  If 
there was no new information, then the claim is 
pre-empted?

 MR. FREDERICK:  No, it's -- well, it is 

not -- I think there are two things to keep analytically 
clear.  One is can the manufacturer come forward with a 
label change on the basis of -- of information that is 
assessing the risk or reassessing the risk, and under 
the -- under the regulations it's absolutely clear it 
can do that before FDA has approved it.  It is subject 
to FDA disapproval.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And -- and is entitled to 

amend the labeling automatically.

 MR. FREDERICK:  That's correct. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I envision a -- a scheme 
under which manufacturers who are worried about jury 
liability of -- of the magnitude that occurred in this 
case saying, gee, why should we take chances?  And every 
time there is a jury verdict on some -- on some other --
some other ground not -- not prohibited by the label, 
they just add that to the label; and they submit it 
to -- to the FDA and the -- and until -- unless and 
until the FDA conducts an investigation and disapproves 
that label, that labeling change occurs.

 How many -- how many -- you mentioned a 
number of -- of times that -- that label alterations 
are -- are proposed.  I mean, this is going to be a 
massive operation for the FDA.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Justice Scalia, that would 

promote public safety, because it puts into the hands of 
doctors the information that enables them to make 
individualized risk determinations.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  It would not promote public 

safety if you believe that the name of this game is 
balancing benefits and costs.

 MR. FREDERICK:  And Congress said --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  And if you are simply 

eliminating certain drugs which people who -- who have 
real desperate need for could -- could be benefited by, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

you're not benefiting the public.

 MR. FREDERICK:  No, and in fact that's 

contrary to the policy determination Congress made.  In 
the misbranding provision, which is Section 352(f), it 
calls -- that the label is misbranded unless its 
labeling bears adequate directions for use and such 
adequate warnings against use in those pathological 
conditions or by children where its use may be dangerous 
to health or against unsafe dosage or methods or 
duration of administration or application.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And that applies even if 

it's approved by the FDA?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Yes.  It's misbranded.  And 

in the 1979 --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You're saying FDA approval 

doesn't -- doesn't give you any protection at all?

 MR. FREDERICK:  It -- it provides you a 

basis for marketing your --- your product.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  But -- but -- but the 

marketing may be a misbranding?

 MR. FREDERICK:  In -- the FDA itself said so 

in 1979 in 44 Federal Register, which we cite in our 
brief, that even an original label may be misbranded if 
the drug manufacturer subsequently learns that it was 
not adequate for the safe use of the drug. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well then, gee, then all of 
the qualifications you were making earlier about whether 
it's new information or a new assessment, that's 
irrelevant.

 MR. FREDERICK:  No, it's --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  You're saying whenever it's 

unsafe, whatever the FDA has approved, you have a 
lawsuit.

 MR. FREDERICK:  No.  What I'm saying is that 

the information developed after the original label is 
approved, and it is not a floor and a ceiling --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  There -- there was nothing 
about new information in what you just said.  You said 
it's misbranded if it's not safe, new information or 
not.

 MR. FREDERICK:  And that's --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Is that -- is that -- is 

that your position?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Our position is that the 

duty is on the manufacturer to make a safe label, and if 
the label is --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But getting to Justice 

Scalia's point, as I understand your answer to an 
earlier question, on the day that the FDA approves the 
label, if there is no further information indicating 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

danger, then any liability that is based upon what the 
-- the kind of information that the FDA knew would be 
pre-empted.  The only time -- you're saying pre-emption 
does not occur when there is -- forget the word "new" 
for a moment -- when there is further information, 
information in addition to what the FDA was told, 
whether it's 1,000 years old or discovered yesterday; 
and if there is liability predicated on further 
information beyond what the FDA was told, then there is 
not pre-emption.

 Is that a fair statement of your position?
 MR. FREDERICK:  That's fair, but let me just 

make clear that our test would require the FDA to 
consider and reject the specific basis on which the 
State law --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  If that's a fair statement 
then you have to retract your -- your earlier assertion 
that whenever it's not safe it's misbranded.  I mean --

MR. FREDERICK:  I'm not going to retract 

that, Justice Scalia.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- which is it?  Whenever 

it's not safe, it's misbranded, or what you just 
responded to Justice Souter?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The basis -- the basis of 

the FDA's approval is on the basis of limited 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

information, which Congress has said for public safety 
reasons -- we are not doing a balancing here; we are 
doing this for public safety --

And if the label is not adequate for public 

safety it is a misbranded drug.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay, but if -- if the 

so-called misbranding is determined to be misbranding, 
based upon information which was given to the FDA, as I 
understand your position, you would admit that there was 
pre-emption.

 MR. FREDERICK:  I -- I think there is 

pre-emption, but that does not mean --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  So there --
MR. FREDERICK:  Maybe there is no --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  In other words, there is 

that one exception at least to the broad statement that 
you gave in answer to Justice Scalia?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Let me try to untangle it 
this way.  The fact that there is pre-emption and you 
cannot bring as State law failure-to-warn claim doesn't 
mean that the drug isn't misbranded under the Federal 
standard the FDA --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But the -- but the 

misbranding is of no consequence to liability.

 MR. FREDERICK:  Well, if --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SOUTER:  In other words, I think 

you're saying if there -- if there would be pre-emption 
it may be misbranded, but there cannot be any recovery 
in a State tort suit.

 MR. FREDERICK:  That's correct.  The -- the 

point --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.  So misbranding under 

those circumstances is a purely theoretical concept.

 MR. FREDERICK:  In that very hypothetical, 

yes.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Okay.
 MR. FREDERICK:  But the point is that the 
failure is that the failure-to-warn claim tracks the 
misbranding provision; and if you look at the jury 
instructions in this case, the wording is very close to 
the wording of the misbranding provision in terms of the 
adequacy of the warning that must be provided.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Frederick --
MR. FREDERICK:  All State law is doing is 

providing a remedy that is absent from Federal law.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Frederick, I'd like to 

put the misbranding point to one side and just 
concentrate on pre-emption.  And I understood you to 
agree with Justice Alito that there is a hypothetical 
case in which there would be pre-emption, and would you 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

tell me what particular fact distinguishes your case 
from his hypothetical?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The fact is there was no 

consideration and rejection of a stronger IV push 
warning.  There was no consideration by the FDA of IV 
push as a means of administration distinct from other 
intravenous forms that would lead to a different kind of 
risk-benefit balancing.  So with the -- in the case 
where there would be pre-emption, FDA would be asked, we 
-- we want to put a stronger warning as against this --
FDA says:  We don't think there is scientific evidence. 
Do not put that warning on the label.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So now, your friends 
on the other side said there was specific consideration 
of IV push as opposed to simply arterial exposure, and 
that that is laid forth in the labeling.  So, as I 
understood your answer to be, all we have to do is 
simply look at the record, and if we think the FDA 
considered specifically IV push risks as opposed to 
general arterial exposure, then you lose, and if we 
determine that they did not, then they lose.

 MR. FREDERICK:  And the Vermont Supreme 

Court was quite emphatic about this, Mr. Chief Justice.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, I don't know 
if the Vermont Supreme Court was emphatic about it.  I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

mean, the record is either -- addresses the FDA -- I'm 
more interested in what the FDA was emphatic about, and 
they either address IV push separately or they don't.

 MR. FREDERICK:  And you search in the joint 

appendix in vain for communications between Wyeth and 
FDA communicating about the particular risks of IV push.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What -- can you turn to 
the references that Mr. Waxman and Mr. Kneedler made? 
They said oh, yes, IV push was considered discretely 
from IV drip bags.

 MR. FREDERICK:  I will acknowledge that the 
references in some instances suggest IV push.  There is 
no doubt that the FDA knew that IV push was a method of 
intravenous administration, but our point is a starker 
one, and that is that the FDA never was put to the test 
of deciding comparative risks and benefits of IV push 
versus IV drip.  And it's that point that is crucial, 
because the catastrophic risks of IV push are so 
dramatic, no reasonable person could have made a safety 
determination to allow this drug with its risks when 
there are corresponding benefits that create exactly the 
same kind of treatment of care for the patient.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, is your argument that 

they couldn't have considered these comparative risks, 
because if they had, they would have come out 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

differently; because they didn't come out differently, 
we have to infer that they didn't consider it?

 MR. FREDERICK:  It's two things:  One, they 

didn't consider it and that's clearly --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  No, I --
MR. FREDERICK:  Second,
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Apart from your analysis 

that they couldn't have or they would have come out 
differently, how did we know that they didn't consider 
it?

 MR. FREDERICK:  There are communications 

that went back and forth between the company.  These are 
set out in the joint appendix.  They make no reference 
to IV push risks as distinct from --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  And do these -- when you 

say "communications," do you mean starting with the 
original application for approval of the label?

 MR. FREDERICK:  The original application 
actually is not known.  It wasn't in Wyeth's files. 
This drug was approved in 1955.  We don't know where the 
original label was, Justice Souter.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  So, you are saying all the 

correspondence that we do know about, that is extant, 
fails to mention comparative risk.

 MR. FREDERICK:  That's correct.  And --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  But the label doesn't.  I 

mean, the label ask discusses the high risk from IV push 
and sets forth particular cautions for that -- for that 
specific means of administration.

 MR. FREDERICK:  It does not, Justice Scalia. 

The label says -- it's talking about intravenous 
administration.  It does not distinguish between IV drip 
and IV push.  And Dr. Matthew testified at trial that, 
based on the label, he would not have been able to make 
a treatment determination to distinguish between the 
two, and that had he had that information, he clearly 
would have given this drug to Diana Levine through the 
intravenous drip method.  The label simply didn't --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  If we conclude that new 

information is the criterion for deciding this case, if 
we reject the argument that misbranding at the outset 
allows State law to supplement the duty, but that if 
there's new information, then the label has to be 
changed -- if it that's the line we draw, can this 
verdict be sustained?

 MR. FREDERICK:  Yes, I think it can be 

sustained on the basis of --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And the Vermont court's 

opinion?

 MR. FREDERICK:  I don't think that the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Vermont Supreme Court's opinion totally, because it does 
go into the area that you're talking about, Justice 
Kennedy, but if I could refer the Court to trial record 
testimony, which is set out in the joint appendix and 
more elaborately in the trial record itself, which makes 
clear that Wyeth knew or should have known about these 
comparative risks.  It should have had a basis for 
changing its label or proposing to FDA a different 
label, and that would be sufficient to satisfy the 
Federal standards as well as the State duty of due care. 
And we think the judgment on that basis could be 
sustained.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask this:  When did 
the duty on the part of Wyeth to have a different label 
arise, in your view?

 MR. FREDERICK:  I think it probably arose in 

the early '70s when a -- when there was a published --
or there was an incident --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Did it arise before or 

after submitting the original drug application?

 MR. FREDERICK:  A strong argument can be 

made that it would have been before the 1970s 
application when they were reformatting.  These are old 
drugs.  We don't have evidence from the 1950s that would 
have suggested that the original label determination in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

1955 would have caused a difference but certainly by the 
1970s when -- when Wyeth was reformatting this as an old 
drug to comply with new standards, it should have known 
and it certainly should have known by the 1990s when 
several amputations had occurred from IV push Phenergan, 
which were in Wyeth's files.  The people who analyzed 
these records, you know, were emphatic that Wyeth knew 
or should have known by the 1990s.  And that was clear 
by the testimony of experts that -- that showed the 
comparison between Vistrol and Phenergan and on the 
basis of the IV push injuries that had occurred that 
were nonpublished.  They appeared to have been reported 
to FDA, but Wyeth never took the trouble to do the 
synthesis, to connect the dots between these very 
terrible tragedies that had occurred from its drug, to 
bring about a labeling change or a modification that 
would have saved lives.  And that is a failure on the 
part of the manufacturer not to comply with its 
standards of due care and with the regulations which 
require health risk information to be the basis of 
modifications to the labeling.

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Does that boil down to a 
claim that there was new information that was available 
between the original approval and the time of the 
lawsuit? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. FREDERICK:  Well, by "original 

approval," do you mean 1955 or do you mean in 1998 and 
2000?

 JUSTICE STEVENS:  Either one.  But is your 
theory really a theory based on new information or new 
judgment about old information?

 MR. FREDERICK:  It would be on the basis, I 
think, of both.  I think we would be able to establish 
that there was a justification on the basis of 
information before the reformatted labeling took place, 
and that was testimony by Dr. Green at trial on the 
basis of Vistrol, the other amputation that had occurred 
with Phenergan in 1965.

 And the -- the important point here is that 

on the basis of new information, if you are going to 
conclude that there is a standard that has to be met, I 
would urge you to consider two things:  One is that the 
burden of showing absence of new information is going to 
fall on the manufacturer because it is asserting a 
pre-emption defense, but the way pre-emption gets argued 
in the courts, it is done oftentimes before discovery is 
permitted.  So, if there is information in the drug 
manufacturer's files that would be relevant to a 
determination of the breach of duty by the drug 
manufacturer, if you decide pre-emption has to be done 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

before discovery can be done, there would be no way to 
get that information.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, to put the burden on 

the manufacturer seems to me inconsistent with what 10 
States have said, that there is a rebuttable presumption 
and inconsistent also with the instructions the jury 
received in this case, that you can consider the FDA 
label.  So, I think, to me, what you say there is not 
borne out by what happened in this case or by those 
other States' --

MR. FREDERICK:  Well, let me -- let me 

address that question because your question goes to the 
regulatory compliance defense and that is not a 
pre-emption defense.  It is a defense based on State law 
that the manufacturer in fact was not negligent because 
it complied with the applicable regulations.  In that --
under that scenario, Justice Kennedy, the plaintiff is 
going to be able to obtain discovery and make arguments 
to the trial court about whether or not that compliance 
negated or did not negate negligence.  But pre-emption 
is a Federal defense that would be asserted typically at 
the outset of the lawsuit before information is 
obtained.  And notably, before 2000, FDA did not have 
subpoena power of drug manufacturers.  It did not have 
the power to force labeling changes.  It didn't even 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

have the power to force drug manufacturers to make 
post-marketing studies.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  The --the part I'm trying 
to figure out is this:  Suppose it was before trial.  I 
don't care, before or after.  The plaintiff comes in 
with a claim.  All right.  Manufacturer:  That's 
pre-empted.  The claim is that you should have told the 
FDA and added something to your label. 
Manufacturer:  That's preempted.  Plaintiff:  Well, you 
haven't read this reg here.  The reg here which has been 
in existence since 1965 says that we can go and add 
something.  I mean you can go and add something to show 
a contra indication, and that's the end of it.

 Now, in fact, 30 years later, I guess, 
without the horrible things happening that Justice 
Scalia mentioned, or maybe they did -- I don't know. 
But 30 years later the FDA makes another mention of new 
information.  I take it that's in 1982.  That's the 
first time that happened.

 Now, if I'm right about that, what happens 
when no one says a word about that?  Of course, if the 
manufacturer had said something about that, then maybe 
the plaintiff would have said:  And it was new.  It was 
new, but the manufacturer doesn't say a word.  Are you 
following what I'm saying? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. FREDERICK: I'm not totally, Justice 
Breyer, I confess, but let me try to address it this 
way.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I mean, I'm wondering still 

what happens.  I believe what happened here is that in 
the argument in the lower courts, in the trial court, 
nobody said anything about the FDA's claim that the 
information necessary to just go ahead and change the 
label had to be new.  Am I right about that?

 MR. FREDERICK:  You are absolutely right 

about that.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  So what I'm trying to 

figure out -- and I don't know if "burden of proof" is 
the right word -- where nobody says a word about it, who 
wins?  If they had said a word about it, you need new 
information, maybe the manufacturer -- the plaintiff 
could have shown that the manufacturer had new 
information.

 MR. FREDERICK: I think the duty is always 
going to be on the manufacturer, Justice Breyer.  The 
regulations at 314.80(b) establish that the -- that the 
manufacturer has the responsibility to do post-
marketing analysis and post-marketing surveys to 
determine the continuing safety of its drugs.  If the 
manufacturer doesn't do that, it isn't complying with 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the Federal regulations which have an ongoing duty on 
them.

 And so in the case where there is silence, I 

would respectfully submit the manufacturer is not 
complying with its regulatory duty to ensure that there 
is current information about all of the side- effect 
risks of its drugs.

 Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

Mr. Waxman, you have three minutes remaining.

 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

 MR. WAXMAN:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
 I want to make -- I do want to go to -- make a 
preliminary point about all the talk about misbranding 
here.  The statute has two criminal prohibitions.  One 
is misbranding, which is the original 1906 reactive 
penalty.  If the FDA subsequently finds that something 
is false or misleading, it CAN come after you for 
misbranding.  But this case involves the criminal 
prohibition against distributing drugs for which there 
is not an approved, effective application.  And that's 
what's at stake here.

 Now, the notion that there was any -- any 

misunderstanding in the trial court about whether there 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

was new information or whether there was -- there were 
incidents that the FDA didn't know about, or it didn't 
evaluate the risk, is just flat wrong.  The plaintiff 
tried this -- the plaintiff's experts said the FDA knew 
about this risk.  Wyeth knew about this risk for 
decades.

 That is what is so wrong.  That is why he 

stood up and said the FDA doesn't decide this question. 
You decide this question.  And there was never, ever a 
suggestion in the record in this case, nor could there 
have been, that Wyeth ever failed to bring every single 
adverse-event report to the FDA's attention, every 
analysis that it did to the FDA's attention.

 And what the record does show is that after 
-- between the time of the 1955 approval of the new-drug 
application and the 1998 rejection of the SDNA, the 
Supplemental New -- SNDA, the Supplemental New Drug 
Application, that did have more extensive, stronger 
warnings in this case, Wyeth filed five -- and these are 
all in the joint appendix -- five supplemental, new-drug 
applications, each one asking for more language, more 
warnings, about direct IV injection.  It's not called 
"push."  It's IV injection versus drip, which is a 
And, in fact, Mr. Frederick 
gravity method. 
says:  Well, you know, in this case there could have 

        

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

been stronger warnings, and that -- and this case wasn't 
really about -- the jury wasn't really asked to -- it 
didn't really say that the label had to contra indicate 
something that the FDA-labeling required.

 That is exactly the opposite of what the 
trial lawyer told the jury at opening and at closing. 
What he said is this was unreasonably unsafe because it 
didn't say:  Do not use by intravenous administration.
 With respect to whether or not the warning 
-- the last SNDA which we submitted, which was in 1987 
and is reprinted in the joint appendix -- not only is it 
an original, but there is a typewritten version that 
actually has the text in the type size that one can 
actually read.  At the summary-judgment stage that the 
pre-emption issue was decided -- may I finish my answer?

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Sure.
 MR. WAXMAN:  Summary judgment was decided at 

the -- pre-emption was decided at summary judgment 
before trial.  So there was no evidence about what was 
new or wasn't new.  In Ms. Levine's motion for summary 
judgment, she uses the word "new" information about 
labeling change.  And, with respect to the proposed 1987 
language, the '88 change that we asked for, she said --
and I'm reading from page 24 of her motion for summary 
judgment -- "In 1988, Wyeth drafted changes to the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

warning which advised that the use of a free-flowing IV 
would ensure adequate dilution and reduce the risk of 
arterial injectia.  Although not strong enough, this 
improved the labeling instruction; if followed, would 
have prevented the inadvertent administration of 
Phenergan into an artery for the reasons described."

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel. 

The case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, the case was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

A 

able 7:24 44:9 

47:8 48:18 

above-entitled 

1:11 

absence 11:16 
11:17 13:15 
47:18 

absent 40:20 
absolutely 34:20 

50:10 

accept 33:7 
account 21:4 
accrual 33:9 
acknowledge 

42:11 

act 10:4,6,8 11:2 

11:3 18:19 
21:20 33:13 

acted 17:20 18:5 

26:19 27:5 
action 18:4 

actions 10:8,11 

23:14 

10:14 

add 35:7 49:11 

49:12 

added 49:8 
addendum 

24:15 

addition 38:6 
address 7:14 
9:10 10:10 
19:9 21:3 42:3 
48:12 50:2 

addressed 7:12 
22:21,23 25:10 
25:19 

addresses 42:1 
adequacy 40:17 
adequate 36:6,7 

36:25 39:4 
54:2 

adjunct 15:9 
administered 
5:4 6:20 27:9 
administering 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

26:23 

administration 

amici 10:13 

15:18 

13:3 

applies 36:11 

14:20 28:16 
33:18 

4:19 5:17 6:5,7  amicus 1:19 2:6  apply 5:24 
6:16 7:15,25 
8:14 10:2 
25:23 29:10 
36:10 41:6 
42:14 44:4,7 
53:8 54:5 

ample 8:9 
amputation 
7:19 47:12 
amputations 

applying 11:21 
approval 13:17 

administrative 

9:7 23:15 
admit 39:9 
adulteration 

advance 13:16 

16:6 

21:22 

31:3 46:5 

analyses 13:15 
analysis 11:21 

33:17 43:7 
50:23 52:13 
analytically 

34:16 

28:4 

adverse 19:3 

adverse-event 

analyzed 46:6 
answer 7:17 
25:2 37:23 
39:17 41:17 
advised 54:1 
53:15 
advisory 6:17,17  anti 17:2 

52:12 

antinausea 31:2  approving 4:14 
Apart 43:7 
apparent 30:19 

area 9:10,11,11 

12:18 23:16 

22:19,20 40:24  apparently 

18:11 21:21 
22:2 23:11 
24:1,18 28:22 
36:15 38:25 
43:17 46:24 
47:2 52:15 

approve 21:25 
approved 3:13 
10:19 12:3,17 
13:20 15:8 
17:9 18:7,23 
22:24 25:5 
26:17 34:21 
36:12 37:7,11 
43:20 51:22 

approves 27:22 

37:24 

9:16 45:2 
argue 3:21 
argued 20:22,24 
21:2,10 47:20 

arguing 15:22
16:14 18:15
argument 1:12
2:2,10 3:3,6 
12:22,22 13:6 
13:12 14:18
24:10 33:12
34:11 42:23
44:16 45:21
50:6 51:11

30:22 

21:13 

1:14 

APPEARAN... 

appeared 46:12 
appears 34:1 
appendix 5:22 

5:23 31:3 
32:13 42:5 
43:13 45:4 
52:20 53:11 

21:8 

affect 11:18 
agency 24:6 
agree 4:6,8 

ahead 29:23 

50:8 

al 28:16 33:18 
Alito 6:23 7:4 
25:2 33:23 
34:11 40:24 

allow 8:24 11:25 

13:1 42:20 

allowed 29:11 
allows 44:17 
alter 16:10 
alteration 4:3 
alterations 

35:12 

altogether 16:22 
amend 34:24 
amendment 

19:16 

amendments 
18:19 19:5 

applicable 48:16 
applicant 24:17 
application 4:14  arguments 34:2

48:18

24:6 36:10 
43:17,18 45:20  arising 17:9
arose 45:16
45:23 51:22 
arterial 6:13,18
52:16,18 

applications 

52:21 

applied 10:17 

8:12 22:22
41:15,20 54:3 

artery 32:25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

54:6

articulated 4:10
asked 6:17
11:23 14:4
31:11,15 41:9 
53:2,23

asking 52:21
aspiration 6:9
asserted 48:21
asserting 47:19
assertion 38:17
assessing 34:19
assessment 37:3
association
24:20 25:8

attention 16:12

17:10,13,19
18:17 52:12,13
authority 18:23

18:25

authorized
17:20,22

automatically

34:24

available 8:22
29:14 46:23
aware 5:2,16

25:22

a.m 1:13 3:2 

B

B 14:2
back 10:13 12:5 

12:13 14:4
17:16 31:10
32:23 43:12
background

10:7,11

bag 5:4
bags 42:10
balance 11:6

14:15 21:23,24
22:5

balancing 9:22

9:25 35:21
39:2 41:8
based 12:6

14:25 16:24 
17:15 27:6 
38:1 39:8 44:9 
47:5 48:14 
basis 27:23 

31:19 34:8,18 
36:18 38:14,24 
38:24,25 44:22 
45:7,11 46:11 
46:20 47:7,9 
47:12,15 

bearing 27:13 
27:15 28:19 

bears 36:6 
beef 32:1 
behalf 1:15,18 

1:21 2:4,6,9,12 
3:7 14:19 
24:11 51:12 
believe 10:22 
35:20 50:5 
benefit 6:25 
7:19,20 8:4 
26:13 

benefited 35:25 
benefiting 36:1 
benefits 8:1 9:25 

21:23 22:21 
28:20 29:12 
32:6 35:21 
42:16,21 
better 9:1,2 
beyond 38:9 
blood 6:9,13 

8:12 

board 4:25 
boil 46:22 
borne 48:9 
box 16:7 
breach 47:24 
Breyer 19:11,17 

19:20 20:4,8 
20:13,23 21:7 
21:17 49:3 
50:2,4,12,20 
brief 5:9,9,24 

7:13 9:21 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

24:15 28:16 
31:21 33:18 
36:23 

briefs 15:6 
bright 6:10 
bring 16:11 

39:20 46:16 
52:11 

broad 11:21 

39:16 

52:10,19,25 
53:1 54:8,9 
cases 10:13,15 
10:22,24,25 
11:9 20:9 26:8 
31:4 

catastrophic 
25:25 26:12 
29:8 42:18 
causal 24:21 
cause 33:1 
caused 31:3 46:1 

brought 10:14 
17:10,13,19 
18:17 20:14,15  cautions 6:8 
22:8 

44:3 

CEE 33:22 

Brown 21:24 
Budhwani 28:16  ceiling 37:11 
Center 19:8 
central 15:5 
certain 5:2 

33:18 

burden 20:16 
21:12 22:14 
28:14 47:18 
48:3 50:13 

24:12 25:17 
26:1,10 29:9 
29:16,22 30:3 
30:8,13 31:8 
41:13,23,24 
51:9,13 53:16 
54:7 

comment 3:21 

49:5 

31:19 

committee 6:17 
common 11:8 

23:19 

communicating 

42:6 

children 36:8 
Cipollone 10:23 
circumstances 

communicatio... 
42:5 43:11,16 
7:6,14 9:8 26:3  company 12:5 
40:8 

22:15,16 43:12 

citations 7:11 
cite 5:6 36:22 
cited 7:13 
claim 5:1 16:24 

comparative 

25:15 42:16,24 
43:24 45:7 
compare 29:5 

20:10,11 29:18  compared 26:13 
34:5,5,10,13 
39:20 40:13 
46:23 49:6,7 
50:7 

comparison 
32:15 46:10 

complaint 4:17 
completely 3:25 
compliance
48:13,19

10:12 11:15,17  complied 48:16 

19:12 20:8,19 
21:9 35:24 
certainly 8:6 
21:5 25:22 
46:1,4 

chances 35:4 
change 13:16 
14:1 15:7,13 
15:16 17:6,11 
17:20 18:13,24 
20:3 22:4 23:4 
23:25,25 30:3 
30:18,22 31:7 
31:22 33:22 
34:18 35:10 
46:16 50:8 
53:22,23 

changed 12:8 
14:6 44:19 

changes 19:15 
31:23 48:25 
53:25 

changing 18:1 
23:17,22,22 
45:8 

Chief 3:3,8 9:9 

9:15 10:3 
14:16,22 24:7 

claims 14:25 
clarify 15:5 
class 9:19 
clause 3:11 9:12 

clauses 11:16 
clear 5:8 25:16 
26:23 28:13 
33:7 34:17,20 
38:13 45:6 
46:8 

clearly 33:24 
43:4 44:11 

client 27:1 
client's 27:2 
clinical 19:1,6 

27:23 

clinicians 8:8 
close 40:15 
closing 4:18 

53:6 

come 11:1,1 

17:2 30:4 33:3 
34:17 42:25 
43:1,8 51:19 
comes 29:20,24 

C

C 1:21 2:1,8 3:1 

24:10

call 29:1,1
called 31:2

52:22

calls 36:5
candle 26:8
care 14:12 27:5 

30:14 42:22
45:10 46:19
49:5

cascading 8:13
case 3:4,10 5:20 
6:6,12 7:5 9:7 
9:17 10:17
11:22 12:15
14:2 15:6
20:12 21:8,9
21:12,14 23:2 
29:20,25 30:8 
31:10 32:19
35:4 40:15,25
41:1,8 44:15 
48:7,9 51:3,20 

complicated

20:19 

comply 3:22 
4:11 46:3,18

complying

50:25 51:5 

comprehended

concentrate 

6:14 

40:23 

32:25 

concentration 

concept 40:8 
concerned 8:4 

11:20 

concerning

24:25 

concerns 3:10 
conclude 11:24 

44:14 47:16 

concluded 6:24 

33:25 

conclusion 

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

10:21 

conditions 3:14 
10:1 15:2 28:2 
36:8 

conduct 11:11 
conducts 35:9 
confess 50:2 
conflict 3:10,11 

continuing 

50:24 

contra 4:20 
49:13 53:3 
contradicting 

contraindicated 

26:16 

33:25 

11:18,22 12:14  contraindicati... 
12:23 13:1,7 
13:11,14,18 
15:1 16:4 
17:11,17 31:18  contra-indicate 

contrary 36:3 
contrast 9:13 

19:23 

conform 14:11 
Congress 11:2 
18:19 21:21 
35:22 36:3 
39:1 

connect 46:14 
consequence 

39:24 

consider 5:3 
30:11 38:14 
43:2,4,9 47:17 
48:7 

consideration 

4:20 

correct 22:12 
34:25 40:5 
43:25 

correspondence 

7:9 43:23 

corresponding 

42:21 

costs 35:21 
counsel 14:16 

51:9 54:7 
count 10:24 
couple 27:24 
course 9:12 

18:9 

49:21 

considering 

26:3 41:4,5,14 
considered 3:17 
16:10 25:9,11 
25:14,20,24 
28:9 33:24 
34:8 41:19 
42:9,24 

court 1:1,12 3:9 
9:18 10:17,20 
11:20 14:23 
20:25 21:3,23 
23:8 29:21 
32:12 41:23,25 
45:3 48:19 
consistent 4:1 
50:6 51:25 
constellation 8:1  courts 27:19 
47:21 50:6 
court's 29:4 
44:23 45:1 
cover 16:14 
create 42:21 
created 31:17 
creating 29:7 
criminal 51:16 

Constitution 

consumers 

constitutes 

33:15 

11:19 

15:10 

11:8 

contain 23:7 
context 6:11,12 

51:20 

7:10 

criterion 44:15 

crucial 32:9 

curiae 1:19 2:7 

42:17 

14:20 

current 51:6 

D

D 3:1
danger 38:1
dangerous 3:19
28:12,13 36:8 

dark 6:10
data 9:23 12:7 

19:2 33:17

DAVID 1:21 2:8 

24:10

day 13:23 22:3 

34:3 37:24
decades 52:6
decide 8:7 9:3 

14:4 47:25
52:8,9

decided 10:25
13:19 21:14
53:15,17,18
deciding 21:8
42:16 44:15
decision 5:12
deemed 31:22
defense 16:23

47:20 48:13,14
48:14,21

demonstrate 5:7
denied 31:17
Department

1:18

dependent
30:12,13

depends 30:8

33:9

depressant 17:3
Deputy 1:17
described 3:14

54:6

design 3:25
desperate 35:25
determination

discovery 47:21 

48:1,18 

9:19 15:1 
23:15 26:11,18 
36:3 42:20 
44:10 45:25 
47:24 

discreetly 5:3 
discretely 42:9 
discusses 44:2 
determinations  dispute 33:14 
disputed 27:18 
disputes 29:4 
distinct 41:6 

determine 7:24 
26:2,7 41:21 
50:24 

43:14 

35:18 

determined 3:17  distinction 9:10 

4:16 39:7 

determines 26:9 
determining 

30:9 

distinctions 

distinguish 44:7 

21:11 

44:10 

developed 37:10  distinguishes
device 9:10,11 

41:1 

9:16 10:8 23:1  distribute 13:24 

devices 9:24 
Diana 1:6 44:12 
difference 9:16 

10:12 13:10 
46:1 

distributing

51:21 

distribution 

11:6 

doctor 27:5 
doctors 35:17 
doctrine 23:15 

different 10:21 
23:19 25:22 
28:2 29:5 32:4  doing 39:2,3
32:5 41:7 45:8 
45:14 

dosage 36:9 
differently 43:1  dots 46:14 

40:19 

directed 7:22,23  draw 44:19 
directions 36:6 
directly 6:22 

43:1,9 

difficulties 

18:20 

dilution 54:2 
direct 6:2 7:6 
18:23 52:22 

9:18 

disagreed 5:18 
disapproval 

34:22 

disapproves 

35:9 

disclose 15:11 
discolors 6:13 
discovered 38:7 

doubt 42:13 
Dr 27:18 28:16 
32:20 33:18 
44:8 47:11 
drafted 53:25 
dramatic 42:19 

drip 5:4 6:4,5 
25:15 32:7,21
42:10,17 44:7 
44:13 52:23 

drug 6:19 7:1,1 
8:11,17 9:11 
10:1,4,6 11:6 
12:1 13:24 
17:3,9 18:22 
19:8,22 21:22 
22:14,16 23:3 

57 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

45:24 53:19 
13:25 14:13 
15:12 20:11,12  evolving 17:4 
exactly 42:21 
22:8 28:22 
42:1,3 47:4 

53:5 

elaborately 45:5  example 16:5 
electronic 19:2 
eliminating 

17:3 

29:18 40:13 
46:17 

failure-to-warn 

16:24 39:20 
40:13 

exceeded 6:7 
exception 39:16 
excess 27:10 
excuse 12:4 25:4 
existence 15:17  FDA 3:12,17,18 

fair 38:11,12,16 
fall 47:19 
false 51:19 
far 28:19 
fault 20:17 

35:24 

emphatic 41:23 

41:25 42:2 
46:7 

employees 19:8 
enables 35:17 
enacted 11:2 
enforcement 

18:21 

15:21 34:12 
49:11 

existing 29:20 
expected 10:4 
experience 12:6 

ensure 51:5 54:2  expert 27:6 
entitled 34:23 
envision 16:1 

46:9 52:4 

experts 5:15,18 

35:1 

escape 22:17 
ESQ 1:15,17,21 

2:3,5,8,11 

essentially 23:12 

32:14 

establish 28:8 
47:8 50:21 

explain 16:16 
explained 5:24 

19:25 

exposure 6:18 
8:11 41:15,20 
exposures 22:22 
express 9:12 
10:5 11:14 

8:21 10:7,11 
11:3 24:23 
28:5 29:25 
establishes 

28:17 

et 28:16 33:18 
evaluate 11:5 

52:3 

evaluated 15:12 
evaluating 3:16 

26:7 

Evaluation 19:9 
event 5:10 
events 19:3,18 

28:4 

evidence 7:8 
10:20 24:20 
25:8,16,21 
29:16 41:11 

23:7 

extant 43:23 
extensive 52:18 

F

fact 3:18 12:16 

13:1,6 15:8 
16:5 17:5
19:12 26:16
31:15,17 36:2 
39:19 41:1,3
48:15 49:14
52:24

factual 20:22

failed 16:17,21

31:19

52:11

fails 43:24
failure 16:11

4:15 5:1,16 
6:24 7:8,9,11 
8:3,5,5,7,23 
9:2,19 10:18 
11:5,25,25 
12:3,5,17,25 
13:2,20,23 
15:8,8,14,20 
16:18 17:5,7 
17:10,19,23 
18:3,5,11,20 
18:23,25 19:1 
19:5,14,25 
21:22 22:4,20 
22:24 23:4,7 
24:1 25:6,9,12 
25:14,20,22 
26:11,19,20 
27:22 28:10,22 
28:24,24 29:2 
29:6,6 30:10 
31:15,20 32:2 
32:22 33:8,24 
34:3,7,21,22 
35:8,9,14 
36:12,15,21 
37:7,24 38:2,6 
38:9,13 39:8 
39:22 41:5,9 
41:11,18 42:1 
42:2,6,13,15 
45:8 46:13 
48:7,23 49:8 
49:17 51:18 
52:2,4,8 

FDA's 15:1,9,13 

24:18,21 27:9 
27:22,22,25 
28:4 29:11 
30:4,17,19,22 
31:2,5 32:25 
34:1 36:24,25 
39:5,21 42:20 
43:20 44:12 
45:20 46:3,15 
47:22,24 48:24 
49:1 52:17 
drugs 9:20,24 
18:9,10 25:23 
28:4 33:3 
35:24 45:24 
50:24 51:7,21 

drug-specific 

due 30:14 45:10 

11:3 

46:19 

duration 36:10 
duties 14:24 
duty 30:14 33:4 

34:9 37:20 
44:17 45:10,14 
47:24 50:19 
51:1,5 

1:21 

E 
E 2:1 3:1,1 
earlier 31:10 

37:2,24 38:17 

early 45:17 
easier 14:2 
EDWIN 1:17 

2:5 14:18 
effect 12:25 
29:25 51:6 
effective 3:13 

6:24 15:2 
51:22 

effectiveness 

11:7 

efforts 15:10 
either 12:6 

D.C 1:8,15,18 

established 8:20  expressed 11:15 

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

17:10,13,19 
18:17 20:1 
21:5 38:25 
50:7 52:12,13 
FDA-labeling 

53:4 

Federal 3:23 4:4 

4:12,13 10:4 
11:12,19 16:3 
17:15 23:13 
36:22 39:21 
40:20 45:10 
48:21 51:1 
fewer 10:24 
field 11:10 
figure 18:10 
49:4 50:13 

file 23:14 
filed 52:19 
files 31:5 43:19 

46:6 47:23 

finally 6:8 11:14 
find 20:18 
finding 30:14 
finds 51:18 
finish 53:15 
first 3:4 5:14 
12:13 17:13 
18:15 49:19 
five 52:19,20
flat 52:3 
floor 37:11 
follow 27:1,2
followed 54:4 
following 49:25 
footnote 5:24 

7:13 29:3 
32:11 

force 23:14,16
48:25 49:1 
forget 38:4 
form 13:14,18

24:5 

forms 5:16 
25:23 41:7 
forth 19:15 
24:15 25:5 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

41:16 43:12 
44:3 

forward 21:5 
33:8 34:17 

found 16:8 23:9 

28:3 

four 5:23 19:6 
Frederick 1:21 
2:8 24:9,10,12 
25:14,21 26:10 
26:21 27:4,12 
27:17 28:14 
29:3,15 30:2 
30:12,20,24 
31:20 32:4,9 
32:11 33:10,14 
34:6,15,25 
35:15,22 36:2 
36:13,17,21 
37:5,9,16,19 
38:12,19,24 
39:11,14,18,25 
40:5,9,12,18 
40:19,21 41:3 
41:22 42:4,11 
43:3,6,11,18 
43:25 44:5,21 
44:25 45:16,21 
47:1,7 48:11 
50:1,10,19 
52:24 

free 19:22 
free-flowing 

54:1 

11:21 

22:11 

free-wheeling 

frequency 20:7 

frequently 33:3 
friends 41:13 
fully 10:18 21:3 
functioning 

fundamentally 

32:17 

22:1 

furnish 16:25 
further 16:15 

21:16,19 37:25  ground 35:6 
guess 49:14 
38:5,8 
G 

H

G 3:1 
game 35:20 
gangrene 7:2,18  happened 48:9

hand 23:13
hands 35:16

19:13 

GAO 28:3 
gee 35:4 37:1 
Geier 10:23 
general 1:17 

15:16,23 28:3 
41:20 

General's 5:9 

31:21 

49:19 50:5
happening

49:15

happens 49:20

50:5

harm 29:8 33:1 
harms 33:20
hatch 22:17
hazard 25:9
health 36:9

46:20

getting 13:17 
19:12 37:22 
Ginsburg 4:22 
4:24 5:5 7:17 
7:21 15:4 18:8  heartland 11:23
42:7 

helped 15:10
give 12:24 36:16  helpful 15:9
given 7:25 12:25  hierarchy 8:13

healthy 28:1
hear 3:3

18:23,25 32:20  high 44:2
hired 19:8
39:8 44:12 
go 6:21 7:4 
hit 26:6
horrible 49:15
huge 18:9
hypothetical

12:16 18:21 
21:14 29:23 
31:10 45:2 
49:11,12 50:8 
51:14

40:9,24 41:2 

goes 9:20 11:13 

27:25 32:14
48:12

going 10:13
12:12 17:1
21:5,12 35:13 
38:19 47:15,18
48:18 50:20

good 21:4
gravity 6:5

52:24

greater 20:6
greatly 25:24
Green 27:18
32:20 47:11

I
idea 27:20
ideation 17:7
identified 9:15

10:13

identify 17:1
immediately

6:13

implicated

10:16

implied 11:22
important 7:15

18:20 47:14
impose 14:5
imposing 23:19

impossibility 

29:25 

13:14 

impossible 3:21 
improved 18:22 

54:4 

inadequate 

29:20 

inadvertent 

54:5 

incident 45:18 
incidents 52:2 
include 24:19 

25:7 

includes 26:3 
including 3:15 
5:15,17 6:21 
7:8 

inconsistent 
14:7 17:14 
22:1 48:4,6 

increased 22:10 

22:11 25:25 
indicate 53:3 
indicated 7:7 

26:9 

indicating 37:25 
indication 49:13 
individualized 

35:18 

infer 43:2 
information 
5:12 8:7,22 
10:19 11:24 
13:15,16,19 
15:17 16:9,12 
16:18,24 17:4 
17:8,9,12 
18:12,17 19:13 
20:2,5,6,14,15 
20:20 21:9 
22:7,18 23:5 
23:18 24:3,4 
30:7 31:5 33:9 
33:11,15,16,19 
34:9,9,12,13 
34:18 35:17 

37:3,10,13,14 
37:25 38:2,5,6 
38:9 39:1,8
44:11,15,18
46:20,23 47:5 
47:6,10,15,18 
47:22 48:2,22
49:18 50:8,16
50:18 51:6 
52:1 53:21 

informed 10:18 

infusion 8:18 

10:18 

32:17 

inject 8:17 
injectia 54:3 
injecting 32:16 
injection 3:13 
3:16 6:19 7:6 
8:11,15,16
15:2 31:4 
52:22,23

injured 12:18 

34:4 

injuries 46:11 
injury 25:25 

27:13 

inquiry 9:23 
instances 19:6,7

42:12 

instructed 29:16 
instruction 6:6

28:21 54:4
instructions
40:15 48:6
instructive

intensive 9:23

23:10

13:23

interested 42:2
interim 17:25
interpretation

intramuscular

20:2

8:14

intravenous
8:16 25:23 

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

intra-arterial 

8:25 

32:17 41:7 
42:14 44:6,13 
53:8 

intravenously 

6:20 

8:10 

35:9 

investigation 

involved 26:25 
involves 51:20 
irrelevant 37:4 
irresponsible 

irresponsibly 

26:20 

26:20 

irritant 6:19 

8:11,17 

issue 8:6 11:1 
24:25 30:9 
33:16 53:15 
issues 10:25 
IV 3:15 4:19,19 
4:25,25 5:2,3,3 
5:17,25 6:2,8 
6:15,22,24 7:6 
7:14 8:18,20 
12:8 22:21 
24:25 25:15,15 
25:20,24 26:12 
26:25 27:3,11 
28:12,19 29:7 
31:4,16 32:1,6 
32:7,20,21 
33:24 41:4,5 
41:15,19 42:3 
42:6,9,10,12 
42:13,16,17,18 
43:14 44:2,7,8 
46:5,11 52:22 
52:23 54:1 

J 

joint 5:22 31:3 

32:13 42:4 
43:13 45:4 
52:20 53:11 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

journals 7:12 
judgment 5:18 

45:11 47:6 
53:17,18,21,25 

judgments 8:8 

jury 3:16 4:16 
11:23 12:24 
13:3,9,19 14:2 
29:13,15 30:10 
35:2,5 40:14 
48:6 53:2,6 

Justice 1:18 3:3 
3:8,20 4:9,22 
4:24 5:5 6:23 
7:4,17,21 8:3,6 
9:9,15,21 10:3 
12:2,13,21 
13:5 14:8,16 
14:22 15:4,24 
16:8,17 17:18 
17:24 18:8 
19:11,17,20 
20:4,8,13,23 
21:7,17 22:6 
22:10,13,19 
23:21 24:2,7 
24:13 25:2,4 
25:17 26:1,10 
26:15,22 27:8 
27:15 28:5,23 
29:8,9,16,22 
30:3,8,13,16 
30:21 31:8,9 
31:11,24 32:8 
32:10 33:6,11 
33:23 34:11,23 
35:1,15,19,23 
36:11,15,19 
37:1,6,12,17 
37:22,22 38:16 
38:20,21,23 
39:6,13,15,17 
39:23 40:1,7 
40:11,18,21,24 
41:13,23,24 
42:7,23 43:5,7 

43:15,21,22 
44:1,5,14,23 
45:2,13,19 
46:22 47:4 
48:3,17 49:3 
49:15 50:1,4 
50:12,20 51:9 
51:13 53:16 
54:7 

justification 

47:9 

justified 33:22 
justifies 15:18 
justify 20:3 

K 
keep 34:16 
Kennedy 3:20 
4:9 8:3,6 22:6 
22:10,13,19 
23:21 44:14,23 
45:3 48:3,17 

Kennedy's 

12:13 

kind 12:24 21:9 

38:2 41:7 
42:22 

kinds 20:19 33:2 
Kneedler 1:17 
2:5 14:17,18 
14:22 15:4,14 
16:2,13,21 
17:22 18:3,14 
19:14,19,25 
20:5,10,21,24 
21:15,19 22:9 
22:12,16,23 
23:24 24:4,8 
25:19 42:8 

knew 24:24 31:6 

38:2 42:13 
45:6 46:7 52:4 
52:5 

know 28:11 
30:25 31:1 
41:24 43:9,20 
43:23 46:7 

49:16 50:13 
52:2,25 

knowledge 

15:15 

known 8:18 

24:24 28:4,18 
32:17 33:20,21 
43:19 45:6 
46:3,4,8 
L

label 3:23,25 4:4 
4:14,16,20 6:9 
10:21 12:3,7
12:17,18 13:6 
13:9 14:1
15:16 16:19
17:21 18:1,13
18:24 23:23,25
24:18 25:18
26:16,17 27:20 
27:22 28:22,24
28:25 29:5,11
29:23 30:1,2,6
31:7,15,25
32:4 34:1,18
35:6,7,10,12
36:5,23 37:10 
37:20,21,25
39:4 41:12
43:17,21 44:1 
44:2,6,9,13,18
45:8,9,14,25
48:8 49:8 50:9 
53:3

labeling 3:15,18
5:11,12,19,19
6:14 7:22,23
8:13,24 10:2 
10:19 13:20
14:6 15:3
16:10 17:6,23
19:7 22:4,24
23:2,3 24:16 
25:5,10 26:22 
27:2,3,10 28:8 
28:11 29:13

34:24 35:10 
36:6 41:16 
46:16,21 47:10 
48:25 53:22 
54:4 

labels 30:4 33:4 
laid 41:16 
language 11:24 

12:19 13:25 
52:21 53:23 
larger 29:17 
lavish 8:10 
law 3:22 4:4,12 
4:12,13 11:9 
11:12 14:24 
17:15 22:3 
23:14,16,19,19
38:15 39:20 
40:19,20 44:17 
48:14 

lawsuit 37:8 
46:25 48:22 

lawyer 53:6 
lead 41:7 
learned 19:22 
learns 36:24 
legal 20:21,23

23:17 

legislature 14:3 
legislatures 14:3 
let's 14:2 
level 27:9 
Levine 1:6 3:4 

12:18 34:4 
44:12 

Levine's 53:20 
liability 12:15 

14:9 35:3 38:1 
38:8 39:24 
license 23:16 
licensing 11:6 
life-saving 7:1 
light 10:1 33:3 
lightning 26:6 
limitation 30:1 
limited 38:25 
line 8:19,21 

60 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

44:19 

51:15,17,20 

3:24 4:5,5,6 
7:19 13:7 
15:16,23 

live 30:15 
lives 46:17 
logical 3:24 4:5  Matthew 44:8 
long 19:17 
maximum 6:5 
long-standing  mean 7:3 9:14  misunderstands 

misunderstan... 

misleading 

51:25 

51:19 

20:2 

look 6:18 7:8 
11:23 13:9,9 
21:22 40:14 
41:18 

27:21 

46:16 

11:9 16:17 
18:6,10 25:10  modification 
26:5 28:6,11 
30:21 35:13 
38:18 39:12,21 
42:1 43:16 
44:2 47:2,2 
49:12 50:4 

modifications 

46:21 

29:6 

looked 22:25 

modify 31:15 
moment 38:5 
looking 10:20 
Monday 1:9 
lose 41:20,21 
means 20:5 25:6  monitoring 
lot 33:19 
18:11 30:6 
lots 27:25 28:1  medical 7:12,22  morning 3:4 
lower 50:6 
M 

26:7 41:6 44:4 

motion 53:20,24 
moved 28:21 
multiple 5:15 
muscular 26:24 

medicine 26:24  mush 25:12 
meets 4:1 

46:13 52:9 
new 13:15,15 

obtain 48:18 
obtained 24:18 

48:23 

35:10 

oftentimes 

occurs 8:20 

46:5,11,15 
47:12 

occur 38:4 
occurred 35:3 

15:17 16:9,11 
16:18,24 17:8 
18:12,17,20 
19:1,8,13,22 
20:2,4,5,5,14 
20:15,19 21:9 
22:7,18 23:5 
23:17 24:3,4,5  offered 28:20 
28:2,6,6 30:4 
30:10,16,18,22 
33:9,11,15,16 
33:17 34:12,13  okay 21:10,15 
39:6,13 40:7 
37:3,3,13,14 
40:11 
38:4 44:14,18 
46:3,23 47:5,5  old 13:16 33:12 
47:15,18 49:17 
49:23,24 50:9 
50:15,17 52:1 
52:17,17 53:20  ones 7:13 
53:20,21 

38:7 45:23 
46:2 47:6 
once 15:8,12

47:21 
oh 42:9 

ongoing 51:1 
new-drug 52:15  opening 4:17 
25:11 53:6 

52:20 

nonpublished 

operation 11:18 

46:12 

nonsubstantive 

31:22 32:23 

non-pre-empted 

34:5 

35:14 

opinion 9:22 
21:8 29:4 
32:12 44:24 
45:1 

41:15,19

opposed 22:21 

notably 48:23 
noted 21:1 
notification 19:2  opposite 53:5 
options 8:25 
notion 27:19 
oral 1:11 2:2 3:6 
33:16 51:24 
November 1:9 
number 18:9 
19:12 20:8 
35:12 
O
O 2:1 3:1 

order 18:25 
ordered 19:1,6,7
ordinary 6:9 
original 36:23 

14:18 24:10 

37:10 43:17,18
43:21 45:20,25
46:24 47:1 
51:17 53:12 

ought 12:8 

16:10 

outset 3:20 15:5 

8:24 9:10,11 
9:16,23 10:8 
32:18 
magnitude 35:3  medically 9:6 
making 17:4 
21:7 37:2 
manufacturer  members 11:20 
15:16 19:22 
20:16 21:12 
22:3 28:18 
30:5,14,25,25 
33:5 34:17 
36:24 37:20 
46:18 47:19,25 
48:4,15 49:6,9 
49:22,24 50:16 
50:17,20,22,25 
51:4 

met 47:16 
method 7:24,25 
8:15 26:9,23 
42:13 44:13 
52:24 

mention 16:5 
43:24 49:17 

mentioned 16:2 

methods 3:14 

35:11 49:16 

8:14 10:1 36:9 

manufacturers 

13:25 15:11 
30:3,18 35:2 
48:24 49:1 

manufacturer's 

20:17 47:23 
market 33:4 
marketed 27:25 
marketing 

36:18,20 50:23 

massive 35:14 
matter 1:11 3:23 

microscopic 

5:20 

million 29:24 
minutes 51:10 
misbranded 
36:5,13,23 
37:14 38:18,22 
39:5,21 40:3 
misbranding 

36:4,20 39:7,7 
39:24 40:7,14 
40:16,22 44:16 

N

N 2:1,1 3:1 
name 35:20
nature 9:18
nausea 7:1
necessarily 26:3
necessary 50:8
need 24:21 33:4 

35:25 50:15

needle 6:11
needles 6:3
needs 22:25
negate 48:20
negated 48:20
negates 16:19
negligence 14:9

14:13 48:20
negligent 27:6

48:15 

29:8 

negligible 28:20  objects-and-p... 

13:18

never 8:3 11:1,1  obligation 14:5

15:15 17:12 
25:14,24 42:15 

23:20 31:10
33:8,13

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

44:16 48:22 
outweigh 7:20 

28:19 

pharmaceutic...  post-date 10:22  pre-empted 

10:15 

post-market 

Phenergan 3:13 

30:7 

14:14,25 15:23 
20:17 22:17 
34:6,7,14 38:3 
49:7 

proposed 12:19 
17:11,16 28:23 
35:13 53:22 

proposing 45:8 
proposition

pre-emption 

15:22 

3:10 9:12 10:5  protect 15:10 
10:12 11:15,16  protection 36:16 
11:18,22 13:18  proved 24:22 
16:15,23 17:12  provide 8:7 
18:16 38:3,10 
39:10,12,19 
40:2,23,25 
41:9 47:20,20 
47:25 48:14,20  provides 36:17 
providing 40:20 
53:15,18 
primarily 15:19  provision 10:5 
prior 21:21 22:2 
23:8,9 36:4 
40:14,16 

16:18,22 30:5 
provided 7:11 
7:11 8:9,12 
40:17 

32:23 33:17 

post-marketing 

19:9 49:2 
50:23 

power 18:2 

48:24,25 49:1 

practitioners 

32:19 

preceding 30:17 
precise 3:17 
4:14 11:24 

precisely 6:18 
preclearance 

9:20 11:4 

preclude 11:11 
predicated 

12:16 34:12 
38:8 

P 

P 1:15 2:3,11 3:1 

3:19 6:13,19 
8:12 15:1 31:7 
33:20 46:5,10 
3:6 51:11 
47:13 54:6 
page 2:2 31:2,21  physician 26:9 
53:24 
pages 5:21,22 

27:2 

28:16 32:13,14 
part 15:7 45:14 

46:18 49:3 

particular 5:13 

6:7 8:1 10:1 
26:8 29:19 
31:12 41:1 
42:6 44:3 
parties 5:15 
party 4:11 
passed 10:7,8 

19:5,17 

pathological 

36:7 

patient 8:2 

42:22 

patterned 9:24 
pay 29:24 
penalty 51:18 
people 19:12 
26:4 27:25 
28:1 35:24 
46:6 

physicians 7:23 
8:13,23 9:1,3 
29:14 

place 17:13 

19:18 47:10 
plainly 6:14 
plaintiff 48:17 

49:5,9,23 
50:16 52:3 

plaintiff's 52:4 
please 3:9 14:23 
plungers 6:3 
point 5:8 7:15 
11:14 18:18 
19:4 20:14,15 
21:20 23:6 
27:18 29:4 
31:12 32:9 
33:2 37:23 
40:6,12,22 
42:14,17 47:14 
51:15 

pointed 9:21 

23:10 

probably 45:16 

preempted 49:9  problem 7:12 
preemption 
5:10 11:10 
22:18 23:1,3,8 
23:9 

proceedings 

28:6,9 

18:21 

problems 28:2,6 

preferability 

32:16 

preferable 8:17 
preferred 8:15 

26:23 

preliminary 

51:15 

premarket 

23:11 

15:20 

process 9:20 
13:23 23:11 
27:21 

prodded 15:11 
product 16:6,7 

36:18 

professionals 

7:22 8:25 

prescribe 29:19  prohibit 23:4 
prescribed 10:2  prohibited 35:6 

prescription 

34:1 

27:3 

prohibition 

23:17 51:21 
prohibitions 

provisions 16:19 
prudent 28:17 
public 35:16,19
36:1 39:1,3,4 
published 45:17 
purely 40:8 
purposes 9:17 
push 3:15 4:19 
4:25 5:3,17,25 
6:2,8,11,15,22
6:24 7:14 8:20 
12:8 22:21 
24:25 25:15,20 
25:24 26:12,25 
27:3,11 28:12 
28:19 29:7 
31:4,16 32:2,7 
32:21 33:24 
41:4,6,15,19
42:3,6,9,12,13
42:16,18 43:14 
44:2,8 46:5,11 
52:23 

put 19:23 32:25 
40:22 41:10,12 
42:15 48:3 

puts 33:8 35:16 

percent 28:3 
points 9:18,22 
permission 14:1 
18:14 33:18 
permitted 47:22  policy 15:7,13 
person 19:21 
42:19 

portions 5:6 

36:3 

25:18 

petition 17:5 

32:13 

petitioner 1:4,16 

1:20 2:4,7,12 
3:7 5:22 14:21 
51:12 

position 15:15 

presence 11:15 

11:16 

16:13 33:8 
37:18,19 38:11  presented 3:11 
12:20 23:2,4 
39:9 
30:10 

promote 35:16 

promulgated 

51:16 

35:19 

20:1 

possibility 17:7 
possible 4:10 

Pfizer 31:4 
pharmaceutical  post 50:22 
7:24 

postdate 10:23 

presumption 

48:5 

proof 50:13 
properly 8:19 

prevented 54:5 

16:9 

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Q 

qualifications 

37:2 

question 5:11,13 

7:18 12:13 
20:21,23 25:3 
30:24 31:11 
37:24 48:12,12 
52:8,9 

quite 41:23 

R 

R 3:1 
raise 12:11 
raised 21:2 
raises 33:12 
rate 6:5,7 23:14 
reach 10:21 
reactive 51:17 
read 19:20 

20:18 21:10 
25:10 49:10 
53:14 

reading 53:24 
reads 24:16 
real 35:25 
really 11:4 
18:11 47:5 
53:2,2,3 

reason 10:5 

12:11,23 23:8 
34:7 

reasonable 
24:20 25:8 
42:19 

reasonably 

28:17 

reasons 32:23 

39:2 54:6 
reassessing 

34:19 

rebuttable 48:5 
REBUTTAL 
2:10 51:11 
received 48:7 
recognized 

18:19 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

recommendat...  rejected 12:19 
17:8,16 27:19 
32:22 34:8 

recommended 

6:21,21 

rejection 13:2 

41:4 52:16 

rejects 17:10,23 

relationship 

17:23 

24:21 

relative 32:6 
relevant 9:5 

47:23 

reliable 6:12 
relied 15:19 
relieves 7:1 
remaining 51:10 
remedies 11:11 

15:21,22 

remedy 15:25 
16:11 40:20 

remember 

12:17 

removed 31:4 
rendered 3:19 

12:1 

Repeatedly 3:12 
reply 5:24 7:13 
report 52:12 
reported 46:12 
representing 

15:3 

record 5:6,14 
7:8 9:8 20:11 
25:18 33:23 
41:18 42:1 
45:3,5 52:10 
52:14 

records 46:7 
recovery 40:3 
reduce 54:2 
refer 45:3 
reference 5:23 
6:1,3,4 29:7 
43:13 

referenced 34:3 
references 42:8 

42:12 

referred 3:15 

6:8 15:21 
30:16 

reflects 9:25 
reformatted 

47:10 

reformatting 
45:23 46:2 

reg 21:10 49:10 

49:10 

regardless 31:24 
regime 11:4 
21:6 22:2 

reserve 14:15 
resources 18:21 
respect 8:16 

9:15,19 10:15 
31:9 53:9,22 

respectfully 

51:4 

responded 

31:12 38:23 
Respondent 

1:22 2:9 10:12 
21:1,1 24:11 
Respondents 

4:2 15:18 

Respondent's 

14:24 

54:2

risks 6:15 8:1,4 
9:5,25 15:11 
22:21,22 25:1 
25:5,15,20,25
26:12,25 28:19 
29:7,12 30:4 
30:17,19,22
32:6 33:2
41:19 42:6,16
42:18,20,24 
43:14 45:7 
51:7

risk-benefit

41:8

road 14:1

31:18 

50:22 

responsibility 

response 21:17  ROBERTS 3:3
9:9 10:3 14:16 
24:7 25:17
26:1 29:9,22
30:8 31:8
41:13,24 51:9 
53:16 54:7

responsible 30:6 
restrictive 28:24 
rethinking 12:7 
retract 38:17,19  rule 10:16 11:10 
revise 28:21 

13:3,3 17:4 
23:18

revised 24:17,19  rule-making

33:4 

25:6 

15:19

19:7 

25:19 

revision 15:18 

ruling 34:3
run 13:25
running 8:18
represents 15:7  Riegle 23:1,7,7,9  Rutherford
reprinted 53:11 
reproduced 

Riegel 9:17,22 

21:24

Register 36:22 
regulated 4:11 
regulation 19:16  request 31:16,25 

5:20 

19:21 20:1,18 
24:14 

require 22:3 
38:13 46:20 
regulations 23:4  required 3:18 
4:13,15 11:5 
11:25 12:2 
13:20 53:4 
requirements 

30:5 33:22 
34:20 46:19 
48:16 50:21 
51:1 

regulatory 21:5 

48:13 51:5 
reject 32:2 

38:14 44:16 

requires 5:19 

4:1 

24:1 

Research 19:9 

right 13:4,11,13 
22:9,13 30:23 
49:6,20 50:9 
50:10,14

rigid 6:3
risk 3:16 5:2,17 
6:18 7:2,2,18
7:20 8:10
19:14 20:6
24:20 25:24
26:4,5 29:7 
30:9,10 34:19 
34:19 35:18
43:24 44:2
46:20 52:3,5,5

S

S 1:17 2:1,5 3:1 

14:18

safe 3:13 6:24 
15:2 26:2,4
36:25 37:14,20
38:18,22
safely 27:11
safety 11:5,7

35:16,20 39:1 
39:3,5 42:19 
50:24

salient 9:17

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

snippets 15:19 
Solicitor 1:17 

24:15 25:5 
27:20 30:3 
32:11,12,17,24  somewhat 29:17 
soon 24:19 25:7 
43:13 45:4 

5:9 31:21 

saliently 5:19 
satisfactorily 

32:18 

satisfy 45:9 
saved 46:17 
savings 11:17 
saying 11:13 

31:25 

sense 29:18 
sent 7:9 
sentence 24:16 

25:6 30:17 
separate 5:23 
separately 42:3 

12:23 14:10,10  serious 24:20 
29:1 30:18 
25:8 26:25 
35:4 36:15 
27:16 
37:6,9 38:3 
40:2 43:22 
49:25 

set 8:18 19:1,15 

says 12:25 13:23 

22:16 28:11 
29:5,19,22 
32:24 41:11 
44:6 49:11,21 
50:14 52:25 
Scalia 15:24 

SETH 1:15 2:3 
2:11 3:6 51:11 
sets 21:20 44:3 
severity 20:6 

22:11 

show 20:16 

showed 25:21 

22:15 49:12 
52:14 

26:14 27:5,13 
31:1 33:24 
46:9 

16:8,17 17:18 
17:24 24:2 
25:4 26:15,22 
27:8,15 28:5 
28:23 29:8 
30:16,21 31:11 
34:23 35:1,15 
35:19,23 36:11  showing 22:10 
36:15,19 37:1 
37:6,12,17 
38:16,20,21 
39:17 44:1,5 
49:16 

shown 50:17 
side 6:25 7:2 
22:8 23:18 
40:22 41:14 
51:6 

47:18 

situation 15:25 
16:14,15 17:2 
17:3 18:16 
19:10 21:4,21 
situations 23:11 
size 5:21 53:13 
small 27:23 
small-bore 6:3 
SNDA 52:17 

53:10 

25:7 

sort 5:20 
Souter 12:2,21 
13:5 14:8 31:9 
31:24 32:8,10 
33:6,11 37:22 
38:23 39:6,13 
39:15,23 40:1 
40:7,11 42:23 
43:5,7,15,21 
43:22 

so-called 39:7 
specific 6:15,20 
13:2,24 38:14 
41:14 44:4 

state 3:16,22 
4:12 10:7,11 
14:2,3,3,24 
16:3 17:25 
22:3 23:18 
29:18 34:10 
38:15 39:20 
40:4,19 44:17 
45:10 48:14 

stated 4:17 
statement 4:18 

38:11,16 39:16 
States 1:1,12,19 
2:6 14:19 48:5 
48:10 

statute 51:16 
STEVENS 

54:8,9 

submitting 

45:20 

subpoena 48:24 
subsequently 
36:24 51:18 

substantial 7:20 
sue 26:20 
sued 16:20 
sufficient 45:9 
suggest 29:13 

32:18,20 42:12 

suggested 15:3 

45:25 

suggestion 

52:10 

suicidal 17:7 

40:18,21 45:13  suit 17:15 18:1 
45:19 46:22 
47:4 

suits 15:9 

40:4 

stone 27:20 30:3  summary 53:17 
stood 52:8 
strength 32:5 
strengthen 

summary-jud... 

53:18,20,24 

53:14 

19:23 31:16 
strengthens 

19:23 

strict 14:8 
strict-liability 

14:14 

stronger 12:19 
28:21 41:4,10 
52:18 53:1 
struck 22:4 
studies 19:1 

49:2 

stuff 20:19 

25:11 

34:21 

submit 35:7 

51:4 

submitted 29:6 

33:17 53:10 

supplement 
23:22 24:2 
44:17 

supplemental 
24:6 52:17,17 
52:20 

supplemented 

28:7 

supporting 1:19 

2:7 14:21 

suppose 18:6 
31:8 33:23 
49:4 

supposedly 

22:14 

Supremacy 3:11 
Supreme 1:1,12 

10:17 20:25 
29:4 32:12 
41:22,25 45:1 
sure 4:7,8 53:16 
Surely 25:6 
surveys 50:23 

specifically 7:14 

strike 21:24 
22:20,23 25:20  strong 45:21 
41:19 

54:3 

Scalia's 9:22 

37:23 

scenario 48:17 
scheme 35:1 
scientific 41:11 
SDNA 52:16 
search 42:4 
second 18:18 
24:16 43:6 
Section 33:5 

36:4 

see 6:10 18:12 
seeking 11:10,11 
semantic 4:6 

sides 5:16 
sidewalk 26:5 
significance 

24:25 

silence 51:3 
similar 10:5 

34:9 

sponsor 24:17 
squarely 23:20 
stage 53:14 
stake 51:23 
standard 10:20 

13:7 14:12 
16:3,4 27:5 
39:22 47:16 

13:8 20:18 
28:7 29:19,22 
32:24 35:23 
41:15,18 44:13  start 24:14 

46:3,19 
stark 3:12 
starker 42:14 

single 52:11 

starting 43:16 

simply 5:18 12:9  standards 45:10 

subject 17:25 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

thought 29:9,10  Tubex 6:1 
thousand 27:24 

sustained 44:20 

44:22 45:12 

synthesis 46:14 
system 6:2,2 
19:2 22:2 

T 

T 2:1,1 
table 9:4,4,5 
take 14:2 21:4 

33:16 35:4 
49:18 

taken 15:15 18:3 
talk 51:15 
talking 7:10 
22:7 23:21 
32:15 44:6 
45:2 

tell 15:6 41:1 
telling 9:3 26:19 
termed 23:20 
terms 9:3,4 11:5 

40:16 

terrible 46:15 
test 4:10 5:10 

7:7 38:13 
42:15 

testified 44:8 
testimony 5:14 
6:6 7:3,4,5 9:7 
24:23 26:13 
27:4,7,12,17 
28:15 30:20 
31:1 32:19 
45:4 46:9 
47:11 

text 53:13 
textual 3:23 4:5 
Thank 14:16 

24:7,12 51:8,9 
51:13 54:7 

theoretical 40:8 
theory 14:13,14 
29:10,13 47:5 
47:5 

things 15:20 
18:22 34:16 

43:3 47:17 
49:15 

think 3:25 4:8,9 
5:8 7:16 9:14 
9:17,21 11:14 
12:7 15:6 
16:16,18 18:4 
19:6,18,21,21 
20:25,25 21:2 
21:3,4 22:24 
33:14 34:16 
39:11 40:1 
41:11,18 44:21 
44:25 45:11,16 
47:8,8 48:8 
50:19 

27:24 

three 51:10 
time 3:23 4:11 

12:6,9,12 
14:15 18:6 
19:20 27:21 
30:4,18 35:5 
38:3 46:24 
49:19 52:15 

times 35:12 
time-intensive 

9:23 

53:6 

told 38:6,9 49:7 

tool 7:15 
tools 18:21 
tort 10:14 11:11 
14:25 15:9,21 
15:22,25 16:11 
17:15 18:1 
40:4 

torts 15:8 23:19 
totally 45:1 50:1 
tracks 40:13 
tragedies 46:15 
treatment 42:22 

44:10 

trial 20:15 24:23 
26:13 27:4,12 

unknown 15:12 
unpublished 

33:19 

unreasonably 

3:19 12:1 
13:21 53:7 
unsafe 12:1 
13:21 36:9 
37:7 53:7 

untangle 39:18 
urge 4:2 47:17 
use 3:14,18 4:13 
4:13,15,15,19
5:2 6:1 7:25 
8:9 12:1,8
13:24 15:3 
26:2 28:12,12
28:25 36:6,7,8
36:25 53:8 
54:1 

uses 53:21 
usual 5:4 
usually 8:17 

11:12 

Vistrol 31:2 
46:10 47:12 

voluntarily 31:4 

W
wait 27:8,8
waived 21:2
walk 26:4
want 4:3,8 5:6,8 
41:10 51:14,14

wanted 21:22
warn 17:6,6

29:18

warned 6:15
warning 12:24

24:19 25:7
31:16 32:1,5
40:17 41:5,10
41:12 53:9
54:1

warnings 7:10

8:10 36:7
52:19,22 53:1 
warranted 9:6
Washington 1:8

27:18 28:15 
29:17 31:1 
32:19 44:8 
45:3,5 47:11 
48:19 49:4 
50:6 51:25 
53:6,19 

trials 19:6 27:23 
tried 12:24 13:8 

13:8 52:4 

trouble 46:13 
true 10:3 20:12 
try 13:8 39:18 

50:2 

trying 49:3 

50:12 

tubing 32:16 
turn 42:7 
turns 23:1,3 
two 5:21,22 

12:17 18:14 
23:11 31:3 
32:14 34:16 
43:3 44:11 
47:17 51:16 

type 29:10 53:13 
typewritten

53:12 

typically 48:21 

U

1:15,18,21
wasn't 21:1

V
v 1:5 3:4 
vague 11:21 
vain 42:5 
various 25:18 
vastly 27:9 
vein 6:12 8:20  Waxman 1:15
verbiage 32:24 
verdict 35:5 

43:19 53:1,2
53:20

44:20 

5:1 8:23,24 
12:4,21 13:5 
17:24 22:6 
33:7,12 37:23 
39:9 

underlies 34:10 
underscore 5:8 
understand 3:24  Vermont 4:16 
10:17 12:24 
13:2,3,9,19 
20:22,24 29:3 
32:12 41:22,25 
44:23 45:1 
version 53:12 
versus 5:3 8:4 
25:15 29:6,8 
32:7 42:17 
52:23 

31:14 40:23 
41:17 

understood 4:9 

unfortunately 

5:21 

United 1:1,12,19  view 34:5 45:15 

2:6 14:19 

violates 4:4 

2:3,11 3:5,6,8 
4:7,22,23 5:5 
7:3,21 8:5 9:14 
10:10 12:15
13:4,13 14:13 
16:2 22:20
23:10 25:19
42:8 51:10,11
51:13 53:17
way 5:4 19:14 
26:11 27:21
39:19 47:20
48:1 50:3
went 32:23

43:12

We'll 3:3

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

21 19:6 
24 2:9 53:24 
25 31:21 
3

3 1:9 2:4 9:19 
30 49:14,17 
314 33:5
314.80(b) 50:21 
352(f) 36:4

4
4a 32:13
430 19:8
44 36:22
5

5a 32:14,24
50 14:3
51 2:12 28:3 
54 28:16
7

70s 24:24 45:17 
79 31:2

8
80s 33:21
88 53:23
9
90s 33:21
97 10:13

we're 22:7 
we've 7:13 
Williamson 

21:24 

12:17 17:5 
28:18 38:7 
49:14,17 

yesterday 38:7 

$ 
$10 29:24 
0 

window 18:7 
wins 50:15 
wish 4:2 
wondering 50:4 
word 38:4 49:21 
49:24 50:14,14 
50:15 53:21 
1 
wording 23:25 
29:19,20 40:15  1,000 38:7 
40:16 
words 4:12,19 

1 32:12 

06-1249 1:5 3:4 

8:19 14:9 
21:21 28:25 
39:15 40:1 
works 27:21 
world 13:22 
worried 35:2 
worth 26:8 
wouldn't 16:4 

20:4,18 

wrong 29:24 

52:3,7 

10 48:4 
10:06 1:13 3:2 
11 5:24
11,000 18:10 
13 7:13 
14 2:7 
150 10:13 
19-A 24:15
1906 51:17
1938 11:2,3
1950s 45:24 
1955 43:20 46:1 

47:2 52:15

1970s 31:6 45:22 

49:11 

1962 11:4
1965 47:13

Wyeth 1:3 3:4 
3:18,22 4:15 
7:9,11 10:19 
11:25 12:5,8 
12:16,19,20,22 
24:24 25:16 
1976 6:17
28:17 31:5,14 
1979 36:14,22
33:20,21 42:5 
1982 49:18
45:6,14 46:2,7  1987 7:9 53:10 
46:13 52:5,11 
52:19 53:25 
Wyeth's 12:22 

53:22

46:2

1988 53:25
1990s 46:4,8
1998 4:15 47:2 

13:5 31:5 
43:19 46:6 

52:16 

X 

x 1:2,7 

Y

year 19:5 
years 3:12 10:14 

2 

20 7:11,11 10:24 
2000 47:3 48:23 
2007 18:18

2008 1:9 19:25 
201.80 24:14 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

