1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

 v. 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x 
ENTERGY CORPORATION, 
:
            
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 07-588 
                       
: 
RIVERKEEPER, INC., ET AL.; 
      
: 
and 
                             
:
PSEG FOSSIL LLC, ET AL., 
        
:
 Petitioners 
         
:  No. 07-589 
                       
: 
      
: 
                             
:
        
:
          
 Petitioner 
:  No. 07-597 
                       
RIVERKEEPER, INC., ET AL. 
: 
       
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x

RIVERKEEPER, INC., ET AL.; 
and 
UTILITY WATER ACT GROUP, 

 v. 

 v. 

 Washington, D.C.
 Tuesday, December 2, 2008

 The above-entitled matter came on for oral 

argument before the Supreme Court of the United States 
at 10:05 a.m. 
APPEARANCES: 
DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,

 Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of 

1


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the Environmental Protection Agency, et al.,

 supporting the Petitioners.


MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of

 the Petitioners. 

RICHARD J. LAZARUS, ESQ., Cambridge, Mass.; on behalf of

 the Respondents. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

C O N T E N T S


ORAL ARGUMENT OF 
DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ.

                                

PAGE 

 On behalf of the Environmental Protection
 Agency, et al., supporting the Petitioners 

      

4


MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                   

18


RICHARD J. LAZARUS, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Respondents 

                   

29


REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF

DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ.


 On behalf of the Petitioners 

                   

59


1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3


Alderson Reporting Company 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Official - Subject to Final Review 

P R O C E E D I N G S

 (10:05 a.m.)

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We will hear 

argument first today in Case 07-588, Entergy Corporation 
v. Riverkeeper Incorporated, and the consolidated cases.

 Mr. Joseffer.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF DARYL JOSEFFER
 ON BEHALF OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL

 PROTECTION AGENCY, ET AL.,
 SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 For more than 30 years, EPA has construed 

the Clean Water Act to permit it to consider the 
relationship between costs and benefits in setting 
limits on water intake.  The court of appeals' 
unprecedented limitation of that discretion is wrong as 
a matter of basic Chevron interpretive principles for at 
least three reasons.

 First, the controlling statutory standard, 

which looks to the best technology available for 
minimizing adverse environmental impacts, is ambiguous 
and does not preclude EPA's interpretation, especially 
in light of the statute's other "best technology" 
provisions, two of which expressly require consideration 

4


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

of the relationship between costs and benefits.

 Second, there is no indication that Congress 

determined for itself that the benefits of stricter 
regulations would in fact outweigh their costs. 
Instead, from the context -- I'm sorry, for -- I'm 
sorry.  There is no indication in either the context or 
the history of the statute that Congress determined for 
itself that the benefits of stricter regulations would 
in fact justify their costs.  Instead the indication is 
that Congress left that to the agency.

 Congress took a very careful look at the 

separate issue of the discharge of pollutants and 
legislated numerous very specific provisions concerning 
the discharge of pollutants.  But when it came to water 
intake, the Congress gave scant attention to that at all 
and included only this one very general provision in the 
act on that subject.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Of course, in the 
other provision it specifically required consideration 
of costs and benefits and it didn't do so in this 
provision.

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Right.  In our view, that 

strongly supports our view that, first, Congress 
understood that consideration of cost and benefits was 
not incompatible with the application of a best 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

technology standard.  Otherwise it would not have 
required that consideration as part of the best quality 
standard, which seems to show at a minimum that a best 
technology standard does not unambiguously foreclose 
consideration of the relationship between costs and 
benefits.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  May I ask you to follow up 

on that, because your statement about compatibility 
raises what for me is a fundamental difficulty in 
understanding this case.  And I think my difficulty goes 
both to Chevron step one and step two.  And that is 
this:  I think we all start from the premise that, 
whatever else subsection (d) had in mind, it was 
imposing some kind of a technology-driven standard 
criterion.  It's there in the words.

 The difficulty that I have is if you are 

going to apply on at least a site-specific basis a cost 
benefit analysis, I'm not sure how it would work.  In 
other words, it seems to me that when you're talking 
about the possible harm from pulling in a few fish or a 
few plankton or a few baby clam larvae and so on, as 
against the cost conceivably of millions of dollars for 
extending intake pipes or putting technical expensive 
filtering mechanisms, you are dealing with such 
incommensurables that I don't know how on a site-

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

specific basis you would sensibly apply a cost-benefit 
analysis.  Are a thousand plankton worth a million 
dollars?  I don't know.

 And my difficulty then is, I don't know how 

it would work.  And because I don't know how it would 
work, it seems to me that if you are going to apply a 
cost-benefit analysis, the odds are what you are going 
to do is basically eliminate the whole technology-driven 
point of the statute.  So that's my difficulty.  Can you 
help me out on that?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Two points on that.  The 
first is that this is how it's always been done.  I 
mean, since 1977 at least, first permitting decisions 
have always been done on a facility by facility, case by 
case basis.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Do we know so far as intake 
pipes are concerned?  I mean, maybe I'm being foolish in 
thinking it's a little easy to make sense of it when 
we're talking about toxic discharges, but leaving that 
aside, do we know that, with respect to these kind of 
intake technology decisions, that the cost-benefit 
analysis has been in any way sensible?  In other words, 
maybe what Congress had in mind was this just doesn't 
work doing it on a site-specific cost-benefit analysis 
and that's why we're going to pass subsection (b) in the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

first place.  So you say, well, we've had experience 
with cost-benefit analysis.  What's the experience?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Sure.  I guess now I have 

three points.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Yes.
 MR. JOSEFFER:  The first is that -- the 

first is that the history here is, that I was referring 
to, is with respect to cooling water intake structures, 
where for more than 30 years cooling water intake 
structures have been determined on a case by case basis, 
where EPA determined as early as 1977 and ever since 
that it would be unreasonable to impose -- to require 
the use of technology whose costs were wholly 
disproportionate to its benefits.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  And have these been 
applications of something more than the outside 
standard, which I guess everybody agrees would apply in 
a case like this, that when it just becomes wholly or 
outrageously disproportionate there wouldn't be -- that 
there would in that sense be a cost-benefit cutoff? 
These have been more subtle decisions than that?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Yes.  And I mean, just the 

phrasing of the standard, whether costs are wholly 
disproportionate to benefits, itself indicates that 
there is a comparison here.  We cite in our brief one 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

particular -- in our reply brief, one specific example 
where benefits were clearly not de minimus.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  The Second Circuit 

recognized that latter kind of taking account of costs 
disproportionate, more than the industry would bear, and 
they also recognized a cost comparison.  If you have a 
cheaper method that is almost as good, you can use that 
and you don't have to use the one that will capture the 
extra fish.  So everybody agrees that there is some 
consideration of cost.  The question is how much, and 
the concern is, as Justice Souter says, that you are 
comparing things that aren't comparable.

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Well, first off -- I'm sorry. 

I guess one basic point is just that -- first off, 
excuse me, in terms of the court of appeals' recognition 
that costs and benefits could be compared in extreme 
circumstances, that just deprives it of the logic of its 
position, because when we talk about the extent or 
degree or manner to which a permissible consideration 
can be considered that's a classic manner for the 
agency's gap-filling discretion, not something for the 
court of appeals or Respondents to get discretion on.
 And, second, in terms of the concern that 

the cost-benefit analysis can be difficult because we're 
comparing benefits that are not easily monetized to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9


Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

economic costs, that is just systematically the case 
with all cost-benefit analyses, even ones which people 
do in ordinary life.  When I decide whether to buy a TV 
for this amount or a more expensive TV for a different 
amount, I don't know exactly how in my head I quantify 
that, but I do.  And with respect to cost-benefit --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Isn't it easier to quantity 

that than the value of a plankton?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Not -- well -- but with cost-

benefit analyses, again, this is routinely done by 
agencies.  The statisticians and the economists --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  It is -- let me -- I will 

grant you that agencies purport to do this kind of 
thing.  But my question and I think Justice Ginsburg's 
question is, does it make any sense in these 
circumstances to think that you really can do a cost-
benefit analysis?  And if the answer is no, we have been 
purporting to do it but it really doesn't make a lot of 
sense, then it either means that there is just going to 
be an irrational process going on, or it means that the 
technology-driven standard basically is going to be read 
right out of the statute, because you are always going 
to find some disproportion which is going to limit your 
use of technology.

 MR. JOSEFFER:  I think the most irrational 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

thing would be to just throw up one's hands and say that 
we are going to impose standards whether or not they do 
harm more harm than good, whether or not they make any 
sense.  And -- and here the agency very carefully 
considered the relative costs and the relative benefits 
and also did so in a way that puts its thumb on the side 
of the environmental side of the scales.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But just to get back 

to your television hypothetical, if you told somebody 
that you were going to buy the best TV available nobody 
would think you meant that you were going to buy a very 
cheap TV because, considering the costs and benefits, 
that was the best one.  They would think you are going 
to get the fanciest TV you could.

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Well, these words have 

different meanings in different contexts, which just 
underscores their ambiguity.  But taking the phrase here 
as a whole, if I said I was going to acquire the best 
technology available for winterizing my lawnmower so 
that it would work again in the spring, the best 
technology available for winterizing a $400 lawnmower 
would not be $500 fluid, because when one's talking 
about protecting something it's intuitive to think about 
the value of what's being protected.

 And again, Congress by expressly requiring 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

cost-benefit analysis for some of the pollution 
discharge limits was expressly contemplating exactly 
what seems to concern you, Justice Ginsburg --

JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Does it make any 

difference --

MR. JOSEFFER:  -- that costs would be traded 

against benefits.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  You have the two labels: 

The BP, "best practical," and then "best available." 
And isn't it so that the best available technology, 
thinking of the Clean Air Act, what they call "BAT," is 
considered the most technology-forcing standard and then 
there are lesser standards?  But you seem to think that 
these can be --

MR. JOSEFFER:  All of these words can have 

different meanings.  I think of the four best technology 
provisions that are expressly cross-referenced in this 
provision, the one that's most informative here is the 
best conventional pollutant control technology, because 
Congress expressly required cost-benefit consideration 
in determining the best conventional pollutant control 
technology and "best" is the only word in that phrase 
that is amenable to a cost-benefit reading.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I think maybe what 

Justice Ginsburg was beginning to get at is my question 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

here.  I assume that BTA is the most rigorous of the 
standards set forth in the statute.  You can argue with 
that assumption, but grant me the assumption for the 
moment.  If BTA is more rigorous than the other 
standards, what is it in the regulations that reflects 
the agency's concurrence with that?  What is there in 
the agency regulations that indicates that there is a 
more rigorous examination under BTA than the other 
standards?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Well, to be clear, the agency 

does not think and therefore did not in its regulation 
presume that the best technology available for 
minimizing adverse environmental impact was more strict 
than the other standards.  Just two commonsense points 
on that.  The pollutant discharge standards, which are 
the other ones, establish their goal to be the 
elimination of discharges, whereas here this provision 
says that its goal is to minimize.  So on its face this 
is a more measured standard than the others.

 And, second, as a practical matter, there is 

no reason Congress would want greater protection for 
fish through intake structures than for people through 
the discharge of pollutants.  I mean especially --
Congress enacted all of these provisions in 1972, and it 
provided at that time that in determining pollution 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

discharge, even including toxic pollution discharge, EPA 
was required to consider the relationship between cost 
and benefits up until 1989.

 And it makes no sense to think that Congress 
would have wanted stricter standards for fish here than 
for people under the toxic discharge provisions.  And on 
its face --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Are you disagreeing with 

the premise of Justice Kennedy's question?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Yes.  Our argument is that --
JUSTICE STEVENS:  You don't think --
JR. JOSEFFER:  -- this provision here for 

water intact --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  -- Congress intended a 

tougher standard?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Pardon?
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  You do not think Congress 

intended a tougher standard; is that true?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  We think Congress did not 

intend this to be a tougher standard than the ones for 
discharge of pollutants --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Why didn't it use BPT or 

-- or one -- one of the other standards?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Well, because these are all 
different standards.  One thing that -- two thing are 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

for certain.  One is that this standard is different 
than all of the others --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  If they are different, 

then one is either less rigorous or more rigorous.
 MR. JOSEFFER:  Right.  But there is no 

reason to presume this one is more rigorous, especially 
considering -- first -- I mean, the words here -- it 
uses important words here it did not use elsewhere.

 Here we have "best technology available" --

"best technology available for minimizing adverse 
environmental impact."  And, first, "best," as some of 
the examples earlier demonstrated, is not necessarily 
the way that most singlemindedly pursues a goal at all 
costs and without regard to all of the consequences, 
which is why -- for example, if you were talking about 
the best way to get home, it would not necessarily be 
the most direct route if that required payment of a 
toll.

 Similarly, "minimize" is also an -- and, 

again, Congress used "best" to mean that in "best 
conventional pollutant control technology," because that 
is the only word there that is amenable to our reading.

 And, second, "minimize" is also an important 

word, because "minimize" has two perfectly common and 
ordinary meanings.  One is to reduce to the greatest 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

extended possible.  The other in ordinary usage is to 
reduce to some lesser, reasonable level.

 So if I said, for example, that I was trying 

to minimize the risk of being hit by a car today, I 
presumably would not mean that I was staying inside at 
home all the time.  Instead, it would mean that, 
consistent with other needs, including economic ones, 
like the need to travel to work, I was being prudent.
 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So if it "available to 

reduce"?  "For minimizing" is no stronger than if it had 
said "available" --
didn't it read "available to reduce"?

if it meant what you suggest, why 

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Well, elsewhere in the Clean 

-- in the Clean Water Act, Congress clearly did use 
"minimize" to mean a reduction.  If Congress called for 
a, quote, "drastic minimization of paperwork," Section 
33 U.S. Code 1251(f), then a "drastic minimization" has 
to mean a drastic reduction, which is a perfectly 
ordinary meaning of the word.

 "Available" is also relevant because, 

Justice Ginsburg, as you mentioned earlier --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  "Reduce" in any event is --
is not -- is not the same as what you are arguing.  You 
are arguing reduce to the maximum extent reasonably 
possible.  The word "reduce" alone doesn't convey that. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The word "reduce" would just mean, you know, if you --
if you knock it down any amount, you have reduced it.

 But you are saying "minimize" requires more 
than that.  It means reducing it to the maximum extent 
reasonably possible.  Isn't that what you are saying?
 MR. JOSEFFER:  No.  We -- we construe --
think the other side might take that view of -- of 
"minimize."  Our view is that "minimize" means you have 
to reduce --

I 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Just to reduce.
 MR. JOSEFFER:  -- a reasonable -- refers to 
a reasonable reduction.  And so some minimal reduction 
in this context would probably not be reasonable.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I didn't understand that to 

be your position.  You -- you don't think that 
"minimize" even means that you reduce it to the maximum 
extent reasonably possible?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Well, I guess it depends --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  You think any reduction 

constitutes minimizing?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  No, because it does have to 

be a reasonable reduction, which would not be -- in this 
context would not be a trivial one.  Reasonableness --
we may -- we may agree, depending on what one means by 
"reasonable."  "Reasonableness" tends to connote a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

consideration of -- of all relevant factors.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes.
 MR. JOSEFFER:  And so when we're talking 

about a reasonable reduction, we are going to talk about 
a reduction that is reasonable in light of, among other 
things, the relationship between costs and benefits.  So 
we may agree if that's what we both mean by 
"reasonableness."

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Let me say it again and you 
tell me whether you agree.  I had thought that what you 
meant the meaning of "minimize" was is that you reduce 
the -- the harm to the maximum extent reasonably 
possible, not merely that you reduce it to some extent.
 MR. JOSEFFER:  I think that's right with --

with "reasonably" entailing a consideration of -- of the 
relationship between costs and benefits.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Of course, "reasonable" 

includes everything.

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Yes.
 If -- I could reserve the remainder of my 

time for rebuttal.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 Ms. Mahoney.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY

 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. MAHONEY:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it 

please the Court:

 I would like to start with just setting the 

stage here.  For almost 30 years now, the Executive 
Branch has had an executive order through all 
administrations that requires a cost-benefit analysis to 
be done whenever regulations are adopted.  And that's 
because the Executive Branch considers that to be just 
an essential component of reasoned decisionmaking.
 So this Court should not be quick to 

conclude that Congress intended to deprive the agency of 
the tools that it needs to come up with reasoned answers 
to these vexing problems in the absence -- -

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Do you agree that this is 

a Chevron case?

 MS. MAHONEY:  Well, it is a Chevron case, 

Your Honor.  And we think -- certainly think it could be 
resolved under step one, meaning the following:  Can you 
read the statute reasonably to say that Congress 
unambiguously foreclosed cost-benefit analysis under 
316(b)?  I think the answer to that is no.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, the -- the -- one 

question I have on this is if I look at the two 
standards -- and the first one is "best practical" -- it 
talks about cost-benefit.  It says you shall consider 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the total cost of application of technology in relation 
to the effluent-reduction benefits.

 Then you look at "best available," and 

they've changed the phrase.  It doesn't get rid of cost, 
but it simply says you shall take into account the cost 
of achieving such effluent reduction.

 MS. MAHONEY:  Your Honor, but that's --
JUSTICE BREYER:  So they both use the word 

"cost."

 MS. MAHONEY:  They do.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Then you look at what 

Senator Muskie said at the time.
 MS.  MAHONEY:  Yes.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  And what Senator Muskie 

said at that time is the object here is when we move to 
better -- to better technology, we -- you know, when you 
get past the practical and you get into the other, it 
says -- stop considering costs?  Not quite.  He says: 
"While costs should be a factor in the administrator's 
judgment."  So he is not against using costs.  He says 
that you have to do it under a reasonableness standard 
where you are taking into account all the goals and so 
forth.

 Now, that's ambiguous.  But, as I read it, 
it says:  Of course you can't avoid taking into account 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

costs, but don't do it too much.

 And, therefore, you would say:  Don't apply 
one of these big formal things when you reach your final 
goal.  There are other ways of getting there.  Of 
course, see that it isn't absurd.  And for 30 years the 
agency has had a way.  It has talked about "grossly 
disproportionate."

 Now, that's the whole background to the 
question.  My question is, of course:  Why not let 
sleeping dogs lie?  Let the agency take it into account 
the way it's done it to prevent absurd results, but not 
try to do it so that it's so refined you can't even take 
account of what a fish is worth unless they happen to be 
one of the 1.2 percent that goes to market.

 MS. MAHONEY:  Well, Your Honor, we are not 

arguing that you have to do monetized cost-benefit 
analysis, nor did the agency say that it was basing its 
rule on --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay, fine.  Then what are 
you arguing?  Are you arguing that you should take costs 
into account?  Because I don't think -- or I don't think 
you should reach much disagreement on that point, that 
sometimes you take them into account the way that 
Senator Muskie suggested.

 MS. MAHONEY:  But, Your Honor, the -- the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Second Circuit held, and Respondents argue, that the 
benefits have to be essentially the same before you can 
look at the cost of the technology.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well now, what they are 

going to argue, I guess, is going to be up to them, and 
I would be very interested in hearing it.

 MS. MAHONEY:  But that is what they --
JUSTICE BREYER:  And then you would be 

satisfied with the following ruling:  The Second Circuit 
went too far in saying that you can never take costs 
into account.

 MS. MAHONEY:  Well, Your Honor --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Of course, you can 

sometimes take account of them, and the standard that we 
think is there -- I'm just imagining this -- is the one 
they have used for 30 years.  Is it grossly 
disproportionate?  Are you -- is it feasible?  Is it 
practical?  Are you using costs along with other things? 
How do you feel about some slightly vague thing like 
that?

 MS. MAHONEY:  Well, something like that, as 

long as it is clear that costs can be --

JUSTICE BREYER:  You are happy with that?
 MS. MAHONEY:  Well, as long as costs can be 
compared to benefits, and the Second Circuit said they 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

could not be; that the benefits have to be essentially 
the same.  That's what "cost-effectiveness analysis" 
means.  Of course the statute doesn't say "cost 
effectiveness."

 JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  So it's simply 
saying the Second Circuit was wrong, the use of the word 
"cost" is meaningless without some idea --

MS. MAHONEY:  Of comparison.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  -- of what the costs are 

relevant to, but a -- but a vague, grossly 
disproportionate test is okay with you?

 MS. MAHONEY:  Well, if --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Is it or not?
 MS. MAHONEY:  A -- a vague, grossly 

disproportionate --

JUSTICE BREYER:  The one they used for 30 

years at EPA, is that all right or not all right?

 MS. MAHONEY:  Your Honor, I think the point 
is:  Yes, if for 30 years they have not been mandating 
closed-cycle cooling under that standing -- standard, so 
from the industry's perspective, that probably is an 
acceptable standard.

 But the real point here is that when we 

start talking about to what degree can you compare the 
costs, is it significantly greater than, is it wholly 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

disproportionate, that's exactly where Chevron comes in. 
If everyone concludes that you can compare costs to 
benefits, then certainly the agency should have some 
flexibility.

 With respect to the question of whether it 

should be the same standard as the -- what I think 
you're referring to as the B-A-T standard, which governs 
discharges of even toxic pollutants, I think the answer 
to that is that not necessarily by any means, because 
the acronyms are similar but the text isn't.  That 
standard actually talks about the goal of eliminating 
discharges.  Congress did not say eliminate all 
impingement and entrainment to the country.  They could 
have, they didn't.

 They said minimize adverse environmental 

impact, which is necessarily a broad delegation of 
discretion to the agency.  In addition, that standard --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Ms. Mahoney, I -- before 
you go any further.  I am not clear.  I -- I did not 
understand that for 30 years the only test has been a 
grossly disproportionate test.  You seem to accept that 
as true.

 MS. MAHONEY:  Wholly disproportionate, Your 

Honor, has been the test.  That's what has been used.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Wholly disproportionate? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MS. MAHONEY:  Wholly disproportionate, not 

grossly disproportionate.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And you're -- you're happy 

with that?

 MS. MAHONEY:  Well, the point is that I -- I 

think what I am happy with is saying that the agency 
should have discretion to formulate what test it's going 
to use.  But under the wholly disproportionate --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.  You think they can 

use a wholly disproportionate?

 MS. MAHONEY:  Yes, I do, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  And you'd be happy if they 
continued to do that, but you wouldn't be particularly 
happy if we prescribed that as the only available test? 
Is that the --

MS. MAHONEY:  Well, I just think that it's 
hard to get that out of the language.  When -- when it 
doesn't come straight out of the language "wholly 
disproportionate," then you ought to leave it to the 
agency.  But --

JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Could the -- could the 
agency mandate a closed-cycle system, recirculating 
system --

MS. MAHONEY:  Well, they haven't.
 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- for a whole plant? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Could they -- under your view, could the agency, given 
its Chevron latitude, mandate closed circulation?

 MS. MAHONEY:  Under a wholly 

disproportionate standard, Your Honor?

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Just under the statute.
 MS. MAHONEY:  Under the statute, I doubt it. 

It would probably be arbitrary and capricious.  But --
and -- and let me explain why.

 The statute talks about minimizing adverse 
environmental impact, and it's important to understand 
what the EPA did here.  At page 169a of the appendix, 
they say:  "We are using impingement and entrainment as 
a quick and convenient metric."  In other words, we are 
going to make you reduce impingement and entrainment to 
the -- to a very large extent, get it down, you know, 
close to zero if we can, whatever.  But that's not 
because it is itself adverse environmental impact.  They 
say they didn't define it at 287a.

 JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But it -- it seems to 

me -- of course, there are limits on what the agency can 
do, but if it couldn't mandate the closed circulation 
system -- I think I've got the term right -- if it could 
not do that, then this is not -- you're backing away 
from Chevron.

 MS. MAHONEY:  Well, here's -- here's how we 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

would say it, Your Honor.  There may be some locations 
where that -- where it would not be wholly 
disproportionate.  If -- if for some reason you couldn't 
design an alternative system that would protect, for 
instance, a balanced population of fish in that water 
body, then it might be that -- that -- that 
closed-cycled cooling would be required.

 But on a national basis, at 355a the agency 
said that they understood that reducing impingement and 
entrainment at the ranges they were talking about would 
not be justified in many locations across the country. 
And that's because power plants may be impinging numbers 
of fish that aren't actually harming that water body. 
Fish have the potential to procreate in very substantial 
numbers.  Some fish spawn 500,000 eggs in a year.  And, 
so, if the -- and throughout the act, even under 316a, 
for instance, Congress has said that, even with respect 
to thermal discharges, you can get variances if you can 
show that you are not harming a balanced population of 
fish in the water body.

 So given that, given the variances 

throughout the act and even these kinds of limits on the 
discharge standards, which are designed to protect human 
health, why would you read the mandate for the maximum 
technology on intake structures which has nothing to do 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

with human health, nothing.  It is just to protect fish 
in the water body.

 So, it doesn't make sense that in a single 
sentence added in conference in a voluminous act about 
discharges of pollutants, that Congress would mandate 
the maximum technology for --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Then why didn't they use 

the word "cost"?

 MS. MAHONEY:  Because, Your Honor, I 

don't --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  I mean, your -- your 

argument is they used cost here, they used cost there, 
they didn't use cost here but they must have meant cost.

 MS. MAHONEY:  Here's why, Your Honor: 

Because the most significant comparison between this 
statutory section and the others is they didn't list any 
of the factors.  All of the other sections have -- have 
a detailed list of considerations that the agency must 
take into account.  This one says nothing.  This is not 
an example of where --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  And maybe the inference to 
be drawn is the agency is not supposed to be taking any 
of these considerations into account.

 MS. MAHONEY:  I -- I don't think that's the 
most reasonable inference because it would lead to very 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

irrational results, 200-foot cooling towers in -- in --
in town -- in historic old towns --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  You've got the -- I mean 

everybody agrees that there is kind of an ultimate 
irrationality standard here.  So that's -- that's not --
that -- that kind of a horrible is not really the point.
 MS. MAHONEY:  I don't think so, Your Honor. 
I don't know where in the language you can get allowance 
to take into account things like energy impacts.  Why? 
If Congress gave a complete and full standard, why can 
we take into account aesthetic harm, navigational harm, 
energy impact?  It doesn't allow for that, and I think 
it doesn't allow for that because Congress intended the 
agency to define the terms in a reasonable way.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
 MS. MAHONEY:  Thank you.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Mr. Lazarus.
 ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD J. LAZARUS

 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS

 MR. LAZARUS:  Mr. Chief Justice and may it 

please the Court:

 In section 316(b), Congress did not 

authorize EPA to decide that the benefits of minimizing 
adverse environmental impact did not justify the cost of 
available technology. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Except -- except, you say, 

when it's grossly disproportionate?

 MR. LAZARUS:  No, Your Honor.
 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Where -- where -- where do 

you find that?  Or the Second Circuit said, anyway.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Let me explain our position, 

Your Honor.  EPA has no authority in any circumstance to 
decide that fish aren't worth a certain amount of cost. 
So EPA never has the authority, in any context, to weigh 
costs against benefits.  The reason why we think that 
would not lead to the kind of absurd circumstances 
they're suggesting is not because Congress has that --
sorry -- EPA has that authority.  It's because we don't 
think that those kinds of absurd circumstances result 
from the cost-benefit balance mandated by Congress.

 Let me explain why, because there are three 
safeguards in the statutory language, its plain meaning, 
which would guard against any possibility that a 
regulated facility would have to spend millions or 
hundreds of millions or billions of dollars to protect 
just a few fish.

 They would -- that would never happen.  I 
mean, it would never happen, but not because EPA can 
decide it's not worth it.  This is why it would never 
happen.  Three reasons, and these are contributing 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

reasons.

 The first reason is if you actually had some 
exorbitant huge increase in costs, if that would happen, 
most of those cases would be triggered by the 
availability requirement.  And that is, that EPA could 
deem that cost not be reasonably borne by the industry. 
That's the ground they --

JUSTICE ALITO:  I don't want to interrupt 
you in your enumeration of three reasons, but I just 
don't see how you get cost into the concept of 
availability.  It doesn't fit in there any better than 
it does under "best."

 MR. LAZARUS:  No, I think it -- I think it 
fits quite well in the word "available."  And EPA has 
said that since 1976.  It was not disputed by anyone 
that available --

JUSTICE ALITO:  It's not the plain meaning 

of the word.  If I look in the real estate page of 
the -- of the "Washington Post" on Sunday and I look for 
the best house that is available, the best house that is 
available might cost $50 million.  Now, that would be 
available to me.  I couldn't afford it, but it would be 
available.

 I don't see how cost can be fit into that 

concept of availability. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. LAZARUS:  I think because it's clear 

that in the context of the Clean Water Act what Congress 
meant in available -- and this is throughout the 
statute -- all the technology-based performance 
standards, the availability was both technologically 
available and economically available.  And that is not 
--

JUSTICE SCALIA:  You are using the word in a 

strange -- economically available?  Economically 
feasible maybe.  But you wouldn't say economically 
available.  You wouldn't say I can't buy the house 
because for me it's not economically available.  I might 
say it's not economically feasible, it's not 
economically possible, but it's not economically 
available?  That's weird.

 MR. LAZARUS:  It may -- it may be weird, 
Your Honor, but it is not anything that has ever been 
disputed in the interpretation of the Water Act.  It's 
how EPA has interpreted it for 30 years, and no court, 
no one, has ever disputed the fact that availability 
includes economic availability.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I disagree with that.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Availability -- if 

availability includes economic availability, why doesn't 
"best" include economically best? 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. LAZARUS:  Because what the statute says 

is not that EPA should -- should promulgate the best 
technology.  It says the best technology available for 
minimizing.

 And what -- what Congress did was told EPA 
what the technology must be best for.  And that is not 
reducing it to the amount that EPA believes is sensible. 
It means minimizing it, which means --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  But that -- but that -- but 
that doesn't answer, it seems to me, the question.  Yes, 
the best available for that purpose, but what is best 
for that purpose could include other factors such as how 
expensive is it and -- and how much it harms the 
industry and all sorts of things.

 MR. LAZARUS:  No, it certainly -- it 

certainly includes costs.  It certainly includes sort of 
whether it can be reasonably borne by the industry. 
There's --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why?  Why does it?  I don't 

know how you draw the lines you are drawing.  You say 
yes, "best" includes whether it would bankrupt the 
industry.  Well, if it includes whether it would 
bankrupt the industry, why shouldn't it include whether 
it would bankrupt the individual power company?

 MR. LAZARUS:  Well, there is no -- there is 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

no question, Your Honor, that the word "available," and 
perhaps the word "best" -- we think the word "available" 
includes an inquiry into whether or not it could be 
borne by the industry.  We also wouldn't doubt, Your 
Honor -- we wouldn't doubt --

JUSTICE SCALIA:  I -- I agree with you on 

that, whether it's borne by the industry.  But you draw 
the line there.

 MR. LAZARUS:  No, that's not what --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  Why isn't it where that 

line is drawn up to the agency?

 MR. LAZARUS:  We're not, Your Honor -- let 
me explain because I think we are confusing different 
inquiries here.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.
 MR. LAZARUS:  We also would agree that EPA 
can take into account site-specific factors in deciding 
whether technology is available.  Some technology is 
available for some facilities given their location, but 
not available for other facilities given their location; 
but when -- where EPA decides, right, where EPA decides 
whether technology is available or not, we don't doubt 
they have authority to do that and some discretion to 
decide when technology is no longer available because of 
the cost.  But where they don't have --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Isn't that -- isn't 

that exactly what they did here in listing what they 
call a suite of technologies or approaches that is 
available?  I thought that was exactly what they did. 
They said for different locations, different 
technologies may be the best available.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Right.  And that is perfectly 

appropriate.  But here's what they did which is not 
permitted.  They could decide based on site-specific 
factors whether technology is available.  What they 
can't do is, once they decide a technology is available, 
they can't then say:  But we don't think it's worth 
minimizing adverse environmental impact with that 
technology, because we don't think those benefits are 
worth that cost.  That comparison inquiry they can't 
make.

 So if I can do my safeguards:  The first one 
is we think availability and cost would eliminate a lot 
of those problems.  But let's assume -- let's just 
assume that technology is much more expensive, way more 
expensive, but it's still available in our view.  It 
still can be borne by the industry even on a 
site-specific basis, which we don't disagree that could 
be done.

 Then let's say that the national -- EPA says 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

well, but that will only save -- you know, your cheaper 
technology will only save a million fish.  We actually 
think you have to save a million and one fish.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't see how you can do 

that.  I just don't see it.  It's -- I mean, suppose 
that the cost of this machine is $100,000.  Now, if you 
say I'm talking about using that machine for an entire 
industry, you would say, my God, that is certainly 
available.  But here I have just one part of the 
industry here; I have a little plant; and you know, to 
hook that machine up is only going to save one 
paramecium.  Neither of us wants that.

 And so the logical thing to say is to say 

well, it isn't available for that.  And I would be with 
you there.

 MR. LAZARUS:  No --
JUSTICE BREYER:  But to be honest about it, 

I would have to say the reason it isn't available is 
quite -- it isn't available for minimizing the -- the 
harm -- that particular adverse impact which is killing 
a -- a water animal.  The reason it isn't is because it 
doesn't kill any water animals.  Well, let me be honest; 
it kills one, or it kills two --
MR. LAZARUS:  But --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Or it kills three, and 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

don't tell me de minimis, because as soon as you say de 
minimis, I'm going to add one, okay?

 (Laughter.)
 JUSTICE BREYER:  But what I'm trying to show 

here is that -- that there -- it isn't meaningful to 
talk about cost being available for an end, without some 
-- about something not being available for an end in 
light of its costs, unless you take into account what 
that end is.  I mean, we'd spend trillions to make 
America secure so not 50 thousand people die, but we 
won't spend trillions for a road accident.  And -- and 
of course you take those things into account.

 So that's -- that's exactly the point I 

wonder about.  Are you really saying pay no attention or 
are you saying, which I could understand better, but you 
have to say what you want, I mean, that what we mean is, 
yes, they can take costs into account.  That's what they 
do under the comparable standard, best available 
technology, but just use your head, don't do it too 
much, don't use it -- like take other things into 
account, too, don't do a formal cost-benefit analysis; 
don't try to evaluate the paramecium.  Do the difference 
between the -- you know, the two standards:  Best 
practical, best available.  Do "grossly" or "wholly" or 
something. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

MR. LAZARUS:  But for best available there 

is no cost-benefit analysis.  It's only for best 
practical --

JUSTICE BREYER:  No, no, no, but best 

available says take costs into account.
 MR. LAZARUS:  Right.  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Now, there is a way of 

doing that which is what I'd call a commonsense way that 
they have some discretion over, that doesn't involve 
some enormously elaborate thing; and that's what I am 
searching for.  I don't -- I am not sitting here with an 
answer.  I'm trying to find a way of making sense of 
this.

 MR. LAZARUS:  But -- well, let me try to 

give you an answer.  They can consider costs only in a 
cost feasibility perspective.  They cannot compare costs 
to benefits.  Congress made --

JUSTICE BREYER:  Those two things seem 

contrary to me.  I don't see how you could -- do you see 
why?

 MR. LAZARUS:  No, I don't, because it is two 
fundamentally different policy decisions.  What Congress 
decided in 1972 was that EPA should be allowed to 
consider costs in determining whether technology was 
available, but not -- and they did this for a reason, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Your Honor -- but not to weigh those costs against those 
benefits in deciding whether or not those costs were 
worth it.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  But how is it -- how is it 

feasible if it has no benefits at all?

 MR. LAZARUS:  It -- it -- it's still 

feasible for, in terms of the industry, whether they can 
afford it.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Then we are going to reach 

our insane results.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Yes -- you are never going to 

-- you are never going reach the insane result.  It's 
never going to happen, Your Honor.  It's never going to 
happen.  Put aside the availability limitation, which 
will cut off like it did dry cooling.  EPA rejected it 
saying it was too expensive.  Not because of the 
cost-benefit:  it's too expensive.  If you have some --
something where it will only just be saving a few fish 
-- what you have to remember is that 316(b) doesn't 
impose technology design reform.  What it imposes is 
that technology-based performance standards.  And if EPA 
were to say, you have to save just a few more fish, if 
they really want to promulgate a standard on that kind 
of increment, the regulated facility would always be 
able to save just a small increment, without adopting 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

some expensive technology, because of the way cooling 
water intake structures work.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel, your 

argument is focused on proving that your interpretation 
won't lead to insane results, as you put it.  But you 
have to do a lot more than that.  I mean, you have to 
establish that this is not ambiguous language.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Well, I think it's not 

ambiguous language because you look at the statutory 
language, it says -- right?  That's in section 316(b) --
EPA is required -- right?  Instructed, required, that 
location, design, construction, capacity of cooling 
water intake structures reflect the best technology 
available for minimizing adverse environmental impact. 
And what we argue, and I think this is quite compelling, 
Your Honor, is that with that language Congress itself 
struck the cost-benefit analysis.  Congress said for 
costs, EPA has to ensure the technology is available. 
Either on industry wide, and could take site into 
account site-specific factors.  For benefits, Congress 
said EPA has to ensure that the environmental benefits 
-- the adverse environmental impact -- be minimized to 
the extent it can be done with available technology.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  You have a good -- you have 
a good argument based on the language of the statute, I 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

think, that that costs cannot be taken into account at 
all.

 MR. LAZARUS:  But --
JUSTICE ALITO:  At all.  But once you 

concede that it can be taken into account at all, then I 
don't see why you were not in Chevron step 2.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Well, Your Honor, this is a --
JUSTICE ALITO:  Once the foot is in the door 

I don't see how you can --

MR. LAZARUS:  It's a complete line.  Whether 

the word "available" can extend to cost feasibility 
analysis is one question.  Whether the word "available" 
can be -- allow EPA to compare costs and benefits, to 
weigh one against the other, that's a completely 
different question.  So the fact that we say the first 
half, it doesn't mean the second.  Congress really had a 
-- what they were doing in 1972, was Congress --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  But our problem is that 

we -- you've got a clear distinction in mind, and I -- I 
don't think we are getting the distinction.  Is the 
distinction in crude terms this:  they can consider 
costs in the sense that on an industry-wide basis they 
can ask, is there money in the bank or will there be 
money in the bank to pay for this?  They don't ask 
cost-benefit in the sense of asking:  is the money in 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

the bank worth what they are going to get for it?

 So is -- is the line you are drawing a money 

in the bank line?  Is that the point you are making?

 MR. LAZARUS:  No.  It's -- it's they can't 

make a judgment that it's not worth it.  It's --

JUSTICE ALITO:  Right.  But --
MR. LAZARUS:  And for reasons that --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  But if the only question, 

when you say they can consider costs, are you saying 
they are simply asking whether it is economically 
possible for the industry to afford this, regardless of 
whether it's any good or not?

 MR. LAZARUS:  Absolutely.
 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Is that what --
MR. LAZARUS:  Absolutely.  What -- 1972, if 

this is what Congress is faced with.

 JUSTICE ALITO:  When you say whether the 

industry can afford it, does it take into account at all 
the effect on the that price consumers have to pay?  If 
the effect of achieving a small gain in protecting -- uh 
-- fish is to increase electricity costs ten times, is 
that something that cannot be taken into account?

 MR. LAZARUS:  If it can be reasonably borne 
by the industry or some site-specific, they can't make 
any other judgment.  And if I can, Your Honor --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE BREYER:  Can't make any other 

judgment.  So imagine the consequence of that 
environmentally.  They can't make any other judgment. 
Suppose the EPA is right:  it's going to add 20 electric 
plants, huge plants, purely to save the fish; and the 
result is the cost of electricity goes up, and the 
result is there are no electric cars, because people 
make the comparison with oil, and now they have to have 
petrol.  I mean, it's very hard for me to believe that 
Senator Muskie would have written a statute that would 
have foreseen such an effect.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Right.  I think because such 

an effect wouldn't happen.  What Senator Muskie and 
Congress was worried about in 1972, Your Honor, was they 
were worried about the possible underregulation.  They 
worried about overregulation.  And their concern was, if 
you gave EPA the authority to weigh costs against 
benefits, you would have systemic underregulation and 
the regulatory process bogged down by --

JUSTICE BREYER:  That's exactly where I 

agree with you.  So I go back to page 170 of the 
legislative history, which I have read now six times, 
and I agree with you that it is not totally clear. 
Maybe you think it is.  But it seems to me what he is 
saying there is just what you've said:  Don't go into 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

this with some elaborate thing, but remember costs are 
still relevant.  And what I've been searching for 
throughout is a set of words that would help me 
translate that thought into a legal reality.

 MR. LAZARUS:  And going back to Justice 
Souter's statement a moment ago, which I agree with, 
what Senator Muskie's distinction he wanted to draw was 
to allow EPA to engage in cost analysis as to 
feasibility, money in the bank, but not to make that 
value judgment of what's worth what.  And --

CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, if you get to 

that money in the bank, does this mean that best 
technology available changes over time?  I mean, maybe 
the industry could have borne these costs two years ago, 
but they probably can't today.  Nobody has money in the 
bank today.

 (Laughter.)
 MR. LAZARUS:  It certainly does depend, and 

this is how EPA does it, not just in this area but 
throughout all the technology-based performance 
standards, looking at availability.  EPA looks at 
industry revenues, barriers to entry, and decides 
whether or not this technology is available.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So you think they 

could have said, two years ago, this is what you have to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

do, but today they would say you don't have to do that 
anymore --

MR. LAZARUS:  It's quite possible --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- even though the 

technology is still available.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Notice -- notice -- not 

economically.  Notice in this case, what the Second 
Circuit said in remanding was EPA may be able to justify 
the same decision on availability basis, but they didn't 
make that determination here.  What has happened for the 
past 30 years, which is how I -- counsel over here 
posited the case -- what has happened over the last 30 
years is the EPA has ignored the statutory language and 
it engaged in this wholly disproportionate analysis as a 
result, which has led to the very kind of 
underregulation that Senator Muskie was worried about, 
and that is that they had never looked to see whether 
closed-cycle cooling is in fact available, economically 
available.  Instead, they tried to compare these things. 
They've just kept from going Phase I through cycle 
cooling.  They've never given a serious look at 
closed-cycle cooling.  And the kind of increment we're 
talking about, if they actually looked at closed-cycle 
cooling, if they'd make available information, we are 
not talking about increments; it's a 98 percent 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

reduction in the water flow that happens.  If you go 
from one --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Mr. Lazarus, can I ask you 

--

MR. LAZARUS:  -- phase to closed cycle.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  May I ask you this 

question?  It's not economically available if it would 
bankrupt the whole industry?

 MR. LAZARUS:  That's right.
 JUSTICE STEVENS:  What about if it bankrupts 

three firms?

 MR. LAZARUS:  If it bankrupts three firms --
if one looks how EPA has interpreted that historically, 
Your Honor, throughout all the pollution control 
statutes, the Air Act, the Water Act, Resource 
Conservation Act, EPA has said that itself is not enough 
to say it's available for the industry, but it is 
possible -- we don't doubt this -- it is possible --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  But it's not economically 

available to those three firms.

 MR. LAZARUS:  No, but here's what happens: 

What the EPA said -- and you can see this in this 
Court's decision in the Crushed Stone case, where the 
Court drew this distinction.  A particular facility can 
seek a variance based on cost impact to them, if they 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

can show that the cost to them is much greater because 
of some particular circumstances to them than it is for 
the industry as a whole.  And this Court said they could 
do that.  EPA has long said it.  We don't question it, 
that they can do a cost-benefit --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  No, but this -- they just 

have -- they are just not quite as strong a company.
 MR. LAZARUS:  No.  And that's the very 

distinction this Court drew in the Crushed Stone case.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But is the variance a 

matter of statutory right or -- or is it available under 
a regulation?

 MR. LAZARUS:  It's -- the way this Court 

interpreted sort of the use of categorical standards in 
the Dupont case, early on in the 1970s, the Court said 
in that case that EPA can promulgate these kind of 
technology-based performance standards on a categorical 
basis --

JUSTICE STEVENS:  Yes.
 MR. LAZARUS:  -- but if they do so, they 

have to take -- they have to give a variance possibility 
because if a particular --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Why -- why isn't that 

simply another name for cost-benefit analysis?

 MR. LAZARUS:  Because you can't do it on a 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

cost-benefit -- it's not a cost-benefit variance.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, you are doing it on 

cost-benefit.  You are saying --
MR. LAZARUS:  No --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  -- if we require this and 
the company goes bankrupt, the value of demanding it is 
not satisfied by the result.

 MR. LAZARUS:  No, that's not the 

justification for the cost variance.  The justification 
for cost variance is not because of a sort of benefits 
being lost.  It's because if you can show -- if the only 
basis you can get a cost variance -- and this is an 
important distinction but not an easy one -- the only 
way you can get a variance is if you can show the 
assumptions EPA made about how much this would cost 
don't apply to you because there is something different 
about your facility, so it actually costs you much more. 
You can get a variance for that.  You can't get a 
variance if you say, "We are a weak company and our 
revenues aren't strong."  You can't get a variance for 
that.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  I assume you can't get a 
variance and you also would say the EPA cannot take it 
into account if this particular plant -- although the 
company as a whole is quite prosperous, this is a small 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

plant, and it's not generating that much electricity. 
It's really just not worth it to put in this big tower. 
We are going to close down.

 MR. LAZARUS:  No, that --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  That would not be something 

that EPA could take into account.

 MR. LAZARUS:  The EPA can take into account, 

as they do for all technology-based performance 
standards, they can take into account the size of the 
facility to the extent it bears on the availability 
question.  They can't do it because they think it's not 
worth it in terms of the benefits over here.  They can 
-- they can take into account on availability, but not 
over here.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, what about the 

particular case?  What they said here is that, if you 
require the closed circuit for everybody, we are going 
to have to build, we are going to have to pay an energy 
penalty of 2.4 to 5.3 percent.  You will have to build 
20 additional 400-megawatt plants, which is huge, many, 
many, many billions of dollars, and the -- just to 
replace the capacity you have lost.  And the result, 
which seems quite logical, would be to increase by a 
lot, not just a little, the consumption of fossil fuel.
 Well, now how are they not -- you seem to 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

be arguing that they can't take that into account, 
which, for an environmental agency, I would have 
thought, "But they must take it into account."

 MR. LAZARUS:  We are not saying they can't 

take that into account.  EPA has said they can.  The 
Second Circuit said they could, and we agree.  But 
here's how they could take it into account.  They can 
take it into account in deciding what will be necessary 
to reduce environmental impact.  So they can take into 
account those things that --

JUSTICE BREYER:  So if they did exactly the 
same thing they've done, which I've just read you, and 
they put a label on it, instead of saying "thinking of 
benefits," we were calling it now "taking into account 
environmental impacts," then they could do it?

 MR. LAZARUS:  Well -- but they -- here's 

what they could do, Your Honor, and I don't think there 
is anything anomalous about this:  The EPA can say, 
"Here are the factors we're going to take into account 
in deciding whether or not we are minimizing adverse 
environmental impact, and we have some authority to 
decide what is and is not a relevant environmental 
impact.  We -- here the industry can take into account 
in deciding whether or not this technology, this cost, 
makes it available or not."  They have authority here, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

but once they decide whether technology is available, 
once they decide what "environmental impact" means and 
what it means to minimize, once they decided that, they 
can't then say, "Well, we don't think these impacts are 
worth those costs."

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I see that thought, and 
this is what's concerning me, but there may be a very 
good answer.  A lot remains to be done with EPA.  They 
have an enormous job to do.  And I wouldn't want to get 
them tied up in unnecessary red tape, where everybody is 
suddenly taking them to court on rather technical 
things.  So if this "grossly" or "wholly," or whatever 
you call it, read out of the Muskie page 170 -- read it 
out of the "available technology" definition, you can 
take costs into account; just don't do it in this other 
way.  I can see how they could work with that.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  Now, I'm worried about what 

you are saying that may make it so difficult for them 
that they won't be able to do the job.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Well, we are doing the exact 
opposite now, Your Honor.  What we are trying to do is 
say that the information that EPA has to focus on, the 
way Congress constrained them, is limited and it doesn't 
allow them to weigh one against the other. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

51 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

What happens if -- and this is why Congress 
didn't want to give EPA cost-benefit analysis authority 
here or almost anywhere in the statute.  Congress was 
concerned that it would bog down the regulatory process, 
and that is that if you actually had EPA -- had to come 
up to this weighing of one to the other and try to weigh 
these imponderables, you would be subject to such 
extraordinary attack -- it happened in this case with 
this rulemaking -- it would slow down the decisionmaking 
process.  It wouldn't speed it up.  Congress understood 
that information is not costless.  And sometimes one can 
achieve a better cost-benefit balance by having 
regulation be based on less information rather than more 
information.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I agree.
 MR. LAZARUS:  And that's why they said, "We 

want to take out this particular" -- remember, before 
1972, there was cost-benefit analysis based upon 
assessment of water quality impacts.  And Congress saw 
what happened with that.  It completely paralyzed the 
regulatory decisionmaking process.  They ended up with 
very little regulation.  So they said:  All right, we're 
not -- we think EPA can do cost-feasibility analysis 
well.  We don't think they do cost-benefit analysis 
well.  We think that kind of information is several 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

52

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

orders of magnitude greater and more imponderable, and 
it's --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Well, is the reason they 
don't do cost-benefit analysis well because they are 
forced to do it in a political atmosphere in which it is 
difficult to make rational decisions?  Is that basically 
the reason Congress would have come to that conclusion?
 MR. LAZARUS:  I think that may be part, but 

I don't think that's --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  Is that --
MR. LAZARUS:  -- the real reason in 1972.  I 
think that does happen.  I think the real reason, 1972, 
was that Congress saw what happened before, and they 
said, it turns out to be really hard in the water 
quality context to measure and value environmental 
impact.  It's so hard that we think that EPA can get a 
better, more rational result if we instead say, here's 
what you focus on, technology available, minimizing, and 
don't try to compare.

 JUSTICE SOUTER:  But I think -- I see your 

point, but I think if I accept your point, all I am 
doing is saying, they may in a kind of smoke and mirrors 
way take cost-benefit analysis into consideration sub 
rosa, when they decide what availability is going to 
mean; and they make take it into consideration when they 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

53 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

decide what a -- a -- an undesirable environmental 
impact is; and that sort of gets the -- the weighing 
process out of the public focus.

 And if they do it that way, they -- they can 
bring in just the considerations that Justice Breyer is 
talking about, but they don't do it in an obvious way. 
And I think that's what your argument boils down to.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Well, I think argument boils 

down to that they can focus on environmental impact, 
decide what is and isn't environmental impact, they can 
focus on availability, decides what costs are relevant 
to that, and when is the technology available --

JUSTICE SOUTER:  What costs are relevant to 

that?

 MR. LAZARUS:  Well, the relevant --
JUSTICE SOUTER:  When they made that 

decision, are they not in effect anticipating the kind 
of decision they would make on a more specific basis in 
a more highly charged political atmosphere, if they 
engaged in the cost-benefit analysis that you say they 
can't do?

 MR. LAZARUS:  It may well be one reason why 
Congress didn't want to compare one to the other, about 
that charged atmosphere.  But what -- they can't do it. 
I don't think they are doing it sub rosa.  Our point is, 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

54 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

Your Honor, is they do it according to Congress's 
instruction, you won't have these kinds of absurd 
results.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  And the page -- the page of 

the legislative history or the page of the text of the 
statute that says what I think is a -- I mean, try it 
with your son.  It costs $100.

 MR. LAZARUS:  I think that's --
JUSTICE BREYER:  Your son says, "It costs 

$100."  You say, "That's too expensive."  He says, "But 
I didn't tell you what it was for."  What?  I mean --
you see?

 Now you tell me the page, and I have read a 
lot of it; tell me the page of the legislative history 
or the phrase of the statute where it says what you just 
said -- that you cannot take into account what you were 
buying for that $100.

 MR. LAZARUS:  Right.
 JUSTICE BREYER:  What page?  I will read it 

again.

 MR. LAZARUS:  I'm -- I'm not going to give 

you a specific page.  I'm going to give you the 
statutory language in section 316(b).

 JUSTICE BREYER:  I know 316(b).
 MR. LAZARUS:  What Congress is doing 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

55 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

systemically in 316(b) and throughout the Clean Water 
Act is that Congress is saying we want to give EPA the 
authority for cost feasibility; we don't believe in this 
-- that it works with cost-benefit analysis because of 
the weighing against one against the other.

 JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, it has -- it has 

required, not just permitted but required cost-benefit 
analysis in other areas.  What --
MR. LAZARUS:  Well --
JUSTICE SCALIA:  What -- what is your 

response to the fact that it -- it seems ridiculous to 
allow it, and indeed require it in effluent situations 
where human health is at stake, and yet to forbid it in 
this intake situation when you were just talking about 
the snail darter.  What -- what's your response to that?

 MR. LAZARUS:  Two responses, Your Honor. 
The first is that in 1972, which is when 316(b) was 
enacted, Congress did not allow cost-benefit analysis 
for toxic pollutants.  Toxic pollutants were not 
regulated under section 301 and 304 of the statute. 
They were not subject to best practicable technology; 
they were not subject to best available technologies. 
They were subject to a separate provision, and that this 
section 307 at that time.  That's a subsequent amendment 
to the law.  Where Congress originally --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

56 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

JUSTICE SCALIA:  And did that section 307 

not allow cost-benefit?

 MR. LAZARUS:  It did not allow cost-benefit. 

The way Congress originally approached hazardous water 
pollutants and toxic air pollutants, the Clean Water Act 
is the same.  They said EPA, this is so harmful that we 
actually want you to do an assessment to figure out at 
what level will it no longer be harmful to humans?  And 
what they found out when they tried that, is they found 
out, boy, that information is unbelievably hard to come 
up with.  And so, they had -- the regulation depended on 
this incredible information, and the result was that EPA 
did nothing.  They did the nothing for water toxics, 
they did nothing for air toxics.  So in 1977, when they 
learned how more information could lead to less 
regulation, they said all right:  we've got to change 
that.  That doesn't work, so we are going to move to a 
technology-based performance approach in the first 
instance, and then couple it with -- still keeping the 
health-based as a backup, to be able to go past that.
 So they put the technology-based as the 
first step and they kept the 307, but in 1972, Your 
Honor, there was only one provision of the Clean Water 
Act in which Congress delegated any authority to EPA to 
compare costs and benefits; and that was under 301(b)(2) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

57

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

and 304(b)(2).  And in that provision they said until 
1977 only, EPA for best practical control technology, 
you can and you must do cost-benefit analysis.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Counsel --
MR. LAZARUS:  That's the only provision.
 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  You would have to 
agree, wouldn't you, that the panel's decision in this 
case overruled the prior panel's decision in judge 
Katzman's decision in Riverkeeper 1?

 MR. LAZARUS:  No, they certainly didn't 

overrule it for two different reasons.  If you look at 
the Riverkeeper 2 opinion, I think it's on 25a, note 11, 
they explain that in Riverkeeper 1, dry cooling was 
rejected because it was too expensive.  That's an 
availability consideration, not a cost-benefit 
consideration.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, in Riverkeeper 

1 what Judge Katzman said is that we think EPA was 
permitted to consider costs and energy efficiency in 
determining the best technology available.  He was 
deciding it on the basis of availability, too.

 MR. LAZARUS:  He gave -- he gave several 

reasons, Your Honor.  Also included was the fact that it 
was too expensive.  Which is why the Riverkeeper 2 court 
characterized that as dictum.  In all events, with all 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

58 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

due respect to my former colleagues on the Georgetown 
faculty, Judge Katzman was wrong.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Counsel. 

Mr. Joseffer, you have four minutes remaining.
 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DARYL JOSEFFER

 ON BEHALF OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL

 PROTECTION AGENCY, ET AL,
 SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Thank you.  If I could start 
where I left off, the fact that Riverkeeper 1 in their 
view is wrong, I think does confirm what anyone would 
conclude after reading the two opinions, which is that 
they are not consistent.  At a minimum that helps to 
demonstrate ambiguity.

 JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It's an ambiguity the 

government said it could live with.  Now the government 
advised this Court not to grant cert in this case, isn't 
that so?

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Our -- our -- what we said 

was we thought the court of appeals was dead wrong, that 
it was a very important issue, but in the interlocutory 
posture of this case, which was a remand, we did not 
think that it was -- was so important as to warrant your 
cert standards.  Frankly, we were delighted to find out 
we were wrong about that. 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

59 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

The other point I need to make is that this 

case is, after all, about the one sentence in the Act 
that deals with water intake, not about all the other 
detailed provisions about the discharge of pollutants, 
which is important because about half of the last 
argument dealt with the discharge of pollutants.

 The fact that there is no list of factors 

here, and instead just one general sentence, just 
underscores that on this issue, Congress was delegating 
especially broad authority to the agency to address a 
problem that at the time was relatively novel, and that 
legislative record confirms Congress itself did not give 
any real weight to.  If we want to look at floor 
statements, thought I would not look to the floor 
statement of Congressman Muskey concerning a different 
standard, which was the BAT standard, but instead the 
only floor statement that addresses this standard, and 
it says that economic practicability is the test, and 
everyone agrees that practicably considers costs and 
benefits.

 JUSTICE BREYER:  Well, that was the House 

side, which the House side was against that.  And the --
the question I have from your point of view is the --
the obverse question:  if you look at this particular 
cost-benefit analysis, I mean, it goes through all these 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

60

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

things which, they don't know what the numbers are, 
nobody knows what the values of the fishes are, which 
98% are never even eaten, they are fast swimmers or 
whatever.

 (Laughter.)
 JUSTICE BREYER:  But the -- the -- you see 

the point here.  That all of his fears, your -- your 
opponent, brother here, seem to be manifest in this kind 
of a document which, if you do read Senator Muskey, 
seems to be the very things he was against.

 So -- so what is -- I am still left with 

your suggestion of what to do, other than just, "well, 
it's all fine."

 MR. JOSEFFER:  Well, look -- first off. 

What EPA did here was not among the most robust forms of 
cost-benefit analysis.  In other words we don't think 
the Court necessarily needs to expand -- to opine on the 
outer limit here.  EPA did two things.  First, as you 
mentioned, it first created national performance 
standards; second it did a variance when an facility's 
costs are significantly greater than the benefits.

 So first in determining -- so -- well, the 
second of those is easiest, because there is an obvious 
thumb on the environmental side of the scales there. 
Costs have been to be significantly greater than 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

61 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

benefits, which is not all that aggressive.

 Here, with respect to the nationwide 

performance standards, EPA again did not just try to do 
a strict -- costs are, you know, one penny greater than 
benefits.  Instead it weighed up a number of 
considerations.  It looked to the incremental benefits 
of closed cycle cooling versus the technology it chose. 
And then it -- it determined that those incremental 
benefits were outweighed by a variety of other things, 
including -- one was the extremely high costs of 
closed-cycle cooling, three and a half billion; second, 
the cost-benefit ratio, which was extremely 
disproportionate; third, the energy impacts which you 
mentioned are really quite significant.

 We are talking about 40% of the Nation's 

power supply.  If we are going to reduce that by 4 
percent and require 20 new plants to be built and 
require each of those plants to be taken offline for 10 
months while it's retrofitted, that's really a very 
significant concern of EPA's.  And then the fourth is 
air pollution.

 And so when EPA is weighing benefits against 

all the other thing and is not purporting to assign 
artificial monetary values to everything, I argue that 
this just underscores that we are well within the 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

62 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

agency's discretion here.

 If I could also turn then to just the main 

point.  One of the main points here is that I really 
don't think Respondents have any logic to their 
position, because when we are talking about the text 
they say costs have to be considered against 
affordability and not against benefits.  But when we are 
talking about absurd results, they say, oh sure, you can 
consider costs against benefits, when it would otherwise 
be absurd.  But under Chevron it's the agency's 
gap-filling discretion to decide when where to draw that 
line, and nothing draw a de minimis line in the statute 
any more than the line EPA has drawn.

 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel, 

the case is submitted.

 (Whereupon, at 11:07 a.m., the case in the 

above-entitled matter was submitted.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

63 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

administrations  ALITO 31:8,17 
40:24 41:4,8 
42:6,17 

administrator's 

19:6 

20:19 

allow 29:12,13 

anyway 30:5 
appeals 4:16 

9:15,22 59:20 
APPEARAN... 

atmosphere

53:5 54:19,24

attack 52:8
attention 5:15

1:23 

20:1 

37:14

applications 

authority 30:7,9

allowance 29:8 
allowed 38:23 
alternative 27:4 

41:13 44:8 
51:25 56:12,18  appendix 26:11 
application 5:25 
57:2,3 

adopted 19:7 
adopting 39:25 
adverse 4:22 
13:13 15:10 
24:15 26:9,17 
29:24 35:13 
36:20 40:14,22  ambiguity 11:17  apply 6:17 7:1,6  authorize 29:23
availability 31:5
50:20 
31:11,25 32:5 
32:20,21,23,24
32:24 35:18
39:14 44:21
45:9 49:10,13
53:24 54:11
58:15,21

30:13 34:23
43:17 50:21,25
52:2 56:3
57:24 60:10

advised 59:17 
aesthetic 29:11 
afford 31:22 

approaches 35:3 
appropriate 

amenable 12:23  approached 

8:17 21:2 
48:16 

ambiguous 4:22 

approach 57:18 

39:8 42:11,18 

affordability 

agencies 10:11 

amendment 

20:24 40:7,9 

59:14,15 

56:24 

15:22 

8:16 

35:8 

57:4 

63:7 

America 37:10 
amount 10:4,5 

arbitrary 26:7 

17:2 30:8 33:7  area 44:19 
analyses 10:2,10  areas 56:8 
analysis 6:18 7:2  argue 13:2 22:1 

7:7,22,24 8:2 
9:24 10:17 
12:1 19:6,20 
21:17 23:2 
37:21 38:2 
40:17 41:12 
44:8 45:14 
47:24 52:2,18 
52:23,24 53:4 
53:23 54:20 
56:4,8,18 58:3 
60:25 61:16 
animal 36:21 
animals 36:22 
anomalous 

22:5 40:15 
62:24 

arguing 16:23 

16:24 21:16,20 
21:20 50:1 

argument 1:21 
3:2,10 4:4,7 
14:10 18:24 
28:12 29:18 
40:4,25 54:7,8 
59:5 60:6 

artificial 62:24 
aside 7:20 39:14 
asking 41:25 

42:10 

50:18 

assessment 
answer 10:17 
52:19 57:7 
assign 62:23 
19:21 24:8 
33:10 38:12,15  assume 13:1 
51:8 

answers 19:12 
anticipating 

54:17 

anymore 45:2 

35:19,20 48:22 
assumption 13:3 

13:3 

assumptions 

48:15 

available 4:21
11:10,19,21
12:9,10 13:12 
15:9,10 16:9 
16:11,12,20
20:3 25:14
29:25 31:14,16
31:20,21,22,23
32:3,6,6,9,11
32:12,15 33:3 
33:11 34:1,2
34:18,19,20,22
34:24 35:4,6
35:10,11,21
36:9,14,18,19
37:6,7,18,24
38:1,5,25
40:14,18,23
41:11,12 44:13 
44:23 45:5,18
45:19,24 46:7 
46:17,20 47:11 
50:25 51:1,14
53:18 54:12
56:22 58:20

avoid 20:25
a.m 1:22 4:2 

63:16

A 

able 39:25 45:8 

51:20 57:20 
above-entitled 

1:20 63:17 

absence 19:13 
Absolutely 
42:13,15 

absurd 21:5,11 
30:11,14 55:2 
63:8,10 

accept 24:21 

53:21 

acceptable 

23:22 

accident 37:11 
account 9:4 20:5 
20:22,25 21:10 
21:13,21,23 
22:11,14 28:19 
28:23 29:9,11 
34:17 37:8,12 
37:17,21 38:5 
40:20 41:1,5 
42:18,22 48:24 
49:6,7,9,13 
50:1,3,5,7,8,10 
50:14,19,23 
51:15 55:16 
achieve 52:12 
achieving 20:6 

42:20 

acquire 11:18 
acronyms 24:10 
act 1:13 4:14 
5:17 12:11 
16:14 27:16,22 
28:4 32:2,18 
46:15,15,16 
56:2 57:5,24 
60:2 

add 37:2 43:4 
added 28:4 
addition 24:17 
additional 49:20 
address 60:10 
addresses 60:17 

10:13 

agency 2:1 3:5 
4:9 5:10 11:4 
13:7,10 19:11 
21:6,10,17 
24:3,17 25:6 
25:20,22 26:1 
26:20 27:8 
28:18,22 29:14 
34:11 50:2 
59:7 60:10 
agency's 9:21 
13:6 63:1,10 
aggressive 62:1 
ago 44:6,14,25 
agree 17:24 18:7 

18:10 19:14 
34:6,16 43:21 
43:23 44:6 
50:6 52:15 
58:7 

agrees 8:17 9:9 

29:4 60:19 

air 12:11 46:15 
57:5,14 62:21 

al 1:6,8,11,16 
2:1 3:5 4:9 
59:7 

64 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

B 

b 7:25 
baby 6:21 
back 11:8 43:21 

background 

44:5 

21:8 

backing 26:23 
backup 57:20 
balance 30:15 

balanced 27:5 

52:12 

27:19 

bank 41:23,24 

42:1,3 44:9,12 
44:16 

bankrupt 33:21 
33:23,24 46:8 
48:6 

bankrupts 
46:10,12 

barriers 44:22 
based 35:9 

40:25 46:25 
52:13,18 

basic 4:18 9:14 
basically 7:8 
10:21 53:6 
basing 21:17 
basis 6:17 7:1,15 

8:10 27:8 
35:23 41:22 
45:9 47:18 
48:12 54:18 
58:21 

BAT 12:11 

60:16 
bear 9:5 
bears 49:10 
beginning 12:25 
behalf 1:25 2:3 
2:5 3:4,7,9,12 
4:8 18:25 
29:19 59:6 
believe 43:9 

56:3 

believes 33:7 

borne 31:6 

benefit 6:18 
10:10,17 

33:17 34:4,7 
35:22 42:23 
44:14 

BP 12:9 

benefits 4:15 5:1 
5:3,8,20,24 6:6 
8:14,24 9:2,16  boy 57:10 
9:25 11:5,12 
12:7 14:3 18:6  BPT 14:22 
18:16 20:2 
22:2,25 23:1 
24:3 29:23 
30:10 35:14 
38:17 39:2,5 
40:20,21 41:13 
43:18 48:10 
49:12 50:14 
57:25 60:20 
61:21 62:1,5,6 
62:9,22 63:7,9 

Branch 19:5,8 
Breyer 19:22 
20:8,11,14 
21:19 22:4,8 
22:13,23 23:5 
23:9,13,16 
36:4,17,25 
37:4 38:4,7,18 
39:4,9 43:1,20 
49:15 50:11 
51:6,18 52:15 
54:5 55:4,9,19 
55:24 60:21 
61:6 

brief 8:25 9:1 
bring 54:5 
broad 24:16 

best 4:21,24 
5:25 6:2,3 
11:10,13,18,20 
12:9,9,10,16 
12:19,21,22 
13:12 15:9,10 
15:11,16,20,20 
brother 61:8 
19:24 20:3 
BTA 13:1,4,8 
31:12,20,20 
build 49:18,19 
32:25,25 33:2 
built 62:17 
33:3,6,11,11 
buy 10:3 11:10 
33:21 34:2 
11:11 32:11 
35:6 37:18,23 
37:24 38:1,2,4  buying 55:17 
40:13 44:12 
56:21,22 58:2 
58:20 

B-A-T 24:7 

60:10 

better 20:16,16 

31:11 37:15 
52:12 53:17 
big 21:3 49:2 
billion 62:11 
billions 30:20 

body 27:6,13,20 

49:21 

28:2 

bog 52:4 
bogged 43:19 
boils 54:7,8 

C 
C 3:1 4:1 
call 12:11 35:3 

38:8 51:13 
called 16:15 
calling 50:14 
Cambridge 2:5 
capacity 40:12 

49:22 

capricious 26:7 
capture 9:8 
car 16:4 
careful 5:11 

circulation 26:2 

circumstance 

30:7 

26:21 

carefully 11:4 
cars 43:7 
case 4:4 6:10 
7:14,15 8:10 
8:10,18 10:1 
19:15,16 45:7 
45:12 46:23 
cite 8:25 
47:9,15,16 
clam 6:21 
49:16 52:8 
classic 9:20 
58:8 59:17,22 
60:2 63:15,16  Clean 4:14 

circumstances 

9:17 10:16 
30:11,14 47:2 

cases 4:5 31:4 
categorical 
47:14,17 

cert 59:17,24 
certain 15:1 

30:8 

certainly 19:17 
24:3 33:15,16 
33:16 36:8 
44:18 58:10 
change 57:16 
changed 20:4 
changes 44:13 
characterized 

charged 54:19 

58:25 

54:24 

12:11 16:13,14 
32:2 56:1 57:5 
57:23 

clear 13:10 

22:22 24:19 
32:1 41:19 
43:23 

clearly 9:2 16:14 
close 26:16 49:3 
closed 26:2,21 

46:5 49:17 
62:7 

closed-cycle 
23:20 25:22 
45:18,22,23 
62:11 

closed-cycled 

27:7 

colleagues 59:1 
come 19:12 
25:18 52:5 
53:7 57:10 
comes 24:1 
common 15:24 
commonsense 

cheap 11:12 
cheaper 9:7 36:1  Code 16:17 
Chevron 4:18 
6:11 19:15,16 
24:1 26:2,24 
41:6 63:10 
Chief 4:3,11 
5:18 11:8 
18:22 19:1 
29:15,17,20 
35:1 40:3 
44:11,24 45:4 
58:4,6,17 59:3 
63:14 

company 33:24 
47:7 48:6,19 
48:25 

13:14 38:8 

chose 62:7 
circuit 9:3 22:1 
22:9,25 23:6 
30:5 45:8 
49:17 50:6 

comparable 
9:12 37:18 

compare 23:24 

24:2 38:16 
41:13 45:19 
53:19 54:23 

65 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

complete 29:10 

60:15 

Congressman 

contemplating 

compared 9:16 

comparing 9:12 

57:25 

22:25 

9:25 

comparison 

8:25 9:6 23:8 
28:15 35:15 
43:8 

compatibility 

6:8 

compelling 

40:15 

41:10 

completely 

41:14 52:20 

component 19:9 
concede 41:5 
conceivably 

concept 31:10 

6:22 

31:25 

concern 9:11,23 

12:3 43:16 
62:20 

concerned 7:17 

52:4 

concerning 5:13 

51:7 60:15 

conclude 19:11 

59:12 

concludes 24:2 
conclusion 53:7 
concurrence 

13:6 

conference 28:4 
confirm 59:11 
confirms 60:12 
confusing 34:13 
Congress 5:2,7 
5:10,11,15,23 
7:23 11:25 
12:20 13:21,24 
14:4,14,17,19

15:20 16:14,15 
19:11,19 24:12


27:17 28:5 
29:10,13,22 
30:12,15 32:2 
33:5 38:17,22 
40:16,17,20 
41:16,17 42:16 
43:14 51:24 
52:1,3,10,19 
53:7,13 54:23 
55:25 56:2,18 
56:25 57:4,24 
60:9,12 

Congress's 55:1 
connote 17:25 
consequence 

consequences 

Conservation 

43:2 

15:14 

46:16 

constitutes 

17:20 

constrained 

construction 

51:24 

40:12 

construe 17:6 
construed 4:13 
consumers 

consumption 

42:19 

49:24 

12:2 

context 5:5,6 

17:13,23 30:9 
32:2 53:15 

contexts 11:16 
continued 25:13 
contrary 38:19 
contributing 

30:25 

consider 4:14 
14:2 19:25 
38:15,24 41:21 
42:9 58:19 
63:9 

control 12:19,21 

15:21 46:14 
58:2 

controlling 4:20 
convenient 

26:13 

conventional 

12:19,21 15:21 

consideration 
4:25 5:19,24 
6:2,5 9:10,19 
convey 16:25 
12:20 18:1,15 
53:23,25 58:15  cooling 8:8,9 
23:20 27:7 
58:16 
29:1 39:15 
40:1,12 45:18 
45:21,22,24 
58:13 62:7,11 
Corporation 1:3 

considerations 
28:18,23 54:5 
62:6 

considered 9:20 

11:5 12:12 
63:6 

considering 
11:12 15:7 
20:18 

considers 19:8 

consistent 16:7 

60:19 

59:13 

consolidated 4:5 

4:4 

cost 5:24 6:17 
6:22 9:6,10 
10:9,16 14:2 
20:1,4,5,9 22:3 
23:3,7 28:8,12 
28:12,13,13 
29:24 30:8 
31:6,10,21,24 

66 

Alderson Reporting Company 

23:2 

27:11 

52:23 

country 24:13 

cost-feasibility 

couple 57:19 
course 5:18 

counsel 18:22 
29:15 40:3 
45:11 58:4 
59:3 63:14 

34:25 35:15,18  cost-effectiven... 
36:6 37:6 
38:16 41:11 
43:6 44:8 
46:25 47:1 
48:9,10,12,15 
50:24 56:3 
costless 52:11 
costs 4:15 5:1,4 
5:9,20 6:5 8:13 
8:23 9:4,16 
10:1 11:5,12 
12:6 15:14 
18:6,16 20:18 
20:19,20 21:1 
21:20 22:10,18 
22:22,24 23:9 
23:25 24:2 
30:10 31:3 
33:16 37:8,17 
38:5,15,16,24 
39:1,2 40:18 
41:1,13,22 
42:9,21 43:17 
44:1,14 48:17  Court's 46:23 
created 61:19 
51:5,15 54:11 
criterion 6:15 
54:13 55:7,9 
cross-referenc... 
57:25 58:19 
60:19 61:21,25 
62:4,10 63:6,9 

4:12,16 9:15 
9:22 19:2,10 
29:21 32:19 
46:24 47:3,9 
47:13,15 51:11 
58:24 59:17,20 
61:17 

18:17 20:25 
21:5,9 22:13 
23:3 26:20 
37:12 

court 1:1,21 

crude 41:21 

12:17 

cost-benefit 7:1  Crushed 46:23 

7:7,21,24 8:2 
8:20 9:24 10:2 
10:6 12:1,20 
12:23 19:6,20 
19:25 21:16 
30:15 37:21 
38:2 39:17 
40:17 41:25 
47:5,24 48:1,1 
48:3 52:2,12 
52:18,24 53:4 
53:23 54:20 
56:4,7,18 57:2

57:3 58:3,15 
60:25 61:16

62:12 

47:9 

cut 39:15 
cutoff 8:20 
cycle 45:20 46:5 

62:7 

D
d 4:1 6:13 
darter 56:15 
DARYL 1:24 

3:3,11 4:7 59:5 

de 9:2 37:1,1 

63:12

dead 59:20 
dealing 6:24 
deals 60:3

Official - Subject to Final Review 

38:9 63:1,11 
disproportion 

10:23 

early 8:11 47:15 
easier 10:7 
easiest 61:23 

54:20 

enormous 51:9 
enormously 

disproportion...  easily 9:25 

8:14,19,24 9:5 
21:7 22:17 
23:11,15 24:1 
24:21,23,25 
25:1,2,8,10,19 
26:4 27:3 30:2 
45:14 62:13 
disputed 31:15 

32:18,20 
distinction 

41:19,20,21 
44:7 46:24 
47:9 48:13 

document 61:9 
dogs 21:10 
doing 7:24 38:8 

41:17 48:2 
51:21 53:22 
54:25 55:25 

dollars 6:22 7:3 

30:20 49:21 

door 41:8 
doubt 26:6 34:4 
34:5,22 46:18 

easy 7:18 48:13 
eaten 61:3 
economic 10:1 
16:7 32:21,24 
60:18 

economically 

38:10 

ensure 40:18,21 
entailing 18:15 
Entergy 1:3 4:4 
entire 36:7 
entrainment 

24:13 26:12,14 
27:10 

32:6,9,9,10,12 
32:13,14,14,25  entry 44:22 
42:10 45:7,18 
46:7,19 

enumeration 

31:9 

economists 

10:11 

effect 42:19,20 

43:11,13 54:17 

effectiveness 

23:4 

efficiency 58:19 
effluent 20:6 

effluent-reduc... 

56:12 

20:2 

eggs 27:15 
either 5:6 10:19 

15:4 40:19 

environmental 
2:1 3:4 4:8,22 
11:7 13:13 
15:11 24:15 
26:10,17 29:24 
35:13 40:14,21 
40:22 50:2,9 
50:15,21,22 
51:2 53:15 
54:1,9,10 59:6 
61:24 

environmenta... 

43:3 

EPA 4:13 8:11 

dealt 60:6 
December 1:19 
decide 10:3 

29:23 30:8,24 
34:24 35:9,11 
50:22 51:1,2 
53:24 54:1,10 
63:11 

Deputy 1:24 
design 27:4 

39:20 40:12 
designed 27:23 
detailed 28:18 

determination 

60:4 

45:10 

decided 38:23 

determined 5:3 

51:3 

decides 34:21,21 

44:22 54:11 
deciding 34:17 
39:2 50:8,20 
50:24 58:21 
decision 45:9 

5:7 8:10,11 
62:8 

determining 
12:21 13:25 
38:24 58:20 
61:22 

dictum 58:25 

46:23 54:17,18  die 37:10 
58:7,8,9 

difference 12:5 

decisionmaking 

19:9 52:9,21 
decisions 7:13 

7:21 8:21 
38:22 53:6 

deem 31:6 
define 26:18 

29:14 

37:22 

different 10:4 

11:16,16 12:16 
14:25 15:1,3 
34:13 35:5,5 
38:22 41:15 
48:16 58:11 
60:15 

definition 51:14  difficult 9:24 
degree 9:19 
51:19 53:6 

6:16 7:4,9 
direct 15:17 

delegated 57:24 
delegating 60:9 
delegation 24:16  disagree 32:22 
delighted 59:24 
demanding 48:6  disagreeing 14:8 
demonstrate 

disagreement 

35:23 

59:14 

21:22 

demonstrated 

discharge 5:12 

1:25 

15:12 

Department 

5:14 12:2 
13:15,23 14:1 
14:1,6,21 
depend 44:18 
27:23 60:4,6 
depended 57:11  discharges 7:19 
depending 
13:17 24:8,12 
27:18 28:5 

17:24 

depends 17:18 
deprive 19:11 
deprives 9:17 

discretion 4:17 
9:21,22 24:17 
25:7 34:23 

23:24 

difficulty 6:9,10  drastic 16:16,17  elaborate 38:10 

16:18 

44:1 

draw 33:20 34:7  electric 43:4,7 

44:7 63:11,12 
drawing 33:20 

42:2 

drawn 28:22 
34:11 63:13 

drew 46:24 47:9 
dry 39:15 58:13 
due 59:1 
Dupont 47:15 
D.C 1:18,25 2:3 

E

E 2:3 3:1,6 4:1,1 

earlier 15:12

18:24

16:21

electricity 42:21 

43:6 49:1 

eliminate 7:8 
24:12 35:18 

eliminating 

24:11 

elimination 

enacted 13:24 

13:17 

56:18 

ended 52:21 
energy 29:9,12 
49:18 58:19 
62:13 

engage 44:8 
engaged 45:14 

14:1 23:17 
26:11 29:23 
30:7,9,13,23 
31:5,14 32:19 
33:2,5,7 34:16 
34:21,21 35:25 
38:23 39:15,21 
40:11,18,21 
41:13 43:4,17 
44:8,19,21 
45:8,13 46:13 
46:16,22 47:4 
47:16 48:15,23 
49:6,7 50:5,18 
51:8,23 52:2,5 
52:23 53:16 
56:2 57:6,12
57:24 58:2,18
61:15,18 62:3 

67 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

foreclosed 19:20  goal 13:16,18 
foreseen 43:11 
15:13 21:4 
formal 21:3 
24:11 

32:10,13 39:5 
39:7 

feel 22:19 
figure 57:7 
filtering 6:24 
final 21:3 
find 10:23 30:5 
38:12 59:24 

fine 21:19 61:13 
firms 46:11,12 

46:20 

first 4:4,20 5:23 

37:21 

former 59:1 
forms 61:15 
formulate 25:7 
forth 13:2 20:23 
fossil 1:8 49:24 
found 57:9,9 
four 12:16 59:4 
fourth 62:20 

goals 20:22 
God 36:8 
goes 6:10 21:14 

43:6 48:6 
60:25 

going 6:17 7:6,7 
7:25 10:19,20 
10:21,22,23 
11:2,10,11,13 
11:18 18:4 
22:5,5 25:7 
26:14 36:11 
37:2 39:9,11 
39:12,13,13 
42:1 43:4 44:5 
45:20 49:3,17
49:18 50:19 
53:24 55:21,22
57:17 62:16 
good 9:7 11:3 

40:24,25 42:12 
51:8 

government

59:16,16

governs 24:7 
grant 10:13 13:3 

59:17 

greater 13:21 
23:25 47:1 
53:1 61:21,25
62:4 

greatest 15:25 
grossly 21:6 

22:16 23:10,14
24:21 25:2 
30:2 37:24 
51:12 

ground 31:7 
GROUP 1:13 
guard 30:18 
guess 8:3,17
9:14 17:18 
22:5 

62:22 63:13 

EPA's 4:23 

62:20 

especially 4:23 

13:23 15:6 
60:10 

ESQ 1:24 2:3,5 

3:3,6,8,11 

essential 19:9 
essentially 22:2 

establish 13:16 

23:1 

40:7 

estate 31:18 
et 1:6,8,11,16 
2:1 3:5 4:9 
59:7 

evaluate 37:22 
event 16:22 
events 58:25 
everybody 8:17 
9:9 29:4 49:17 
51:10 

exact 51:21 
exactly 10:5 

12:2 24:1 35:2 
35:4 37:13 
43:20 50:11 
examination 

13:8 

example 9:1 
15:15 16:3 
28:20 

examples 15:12 
excuse 9:15 
executive 19:4,5 

19:8 

exorbitant 31:3 
expand 61:17 
expensive 6:23 

10:4 33:13 
35:20,21 39:16 
39:17 40:1 
55:10 58:14,24 
experience 8:1,2 
explain 26:8 

30:6,16 34:13 

58:13 

expressly 4:25 
11:25 12:2,17 
12:20 

extend 41:11 
extended 16:1 
extending 6:23 
extent 9:18 

16:24 17:4,17 
18:12,13 26:15 
40:23 49:10 

extra 9:9 
extraordinary 

52:8 

extreme 9:16 
extremely 62:10 

62:12 
F

face 13:18 14:7 
faced 42:16
facilities 34:19

34:20 

facility 7:14,14 
30:19 39:24 
46:24 48:17 
49:10 

facility's 61:20 
fact 5:4,9 32:20 

41:15 45:18 
56:11 58:23 
59:10 60:7 
factor 20:19 
factors 18:1 
28:17 33:12 
34:17 35:10 
40:20 50:19 
60:7 

faculty 59:2 
fanciest 11:14 
far 7:16 22:10 
fast 61:3 
fears 61:7 
feasibility 38:16 

41:11 44:9 
56:3 

feasible 22:17 

6:9 

fundamentally 

fuel 49:24 
full 29:10 
fundamental 

7:12,13 8:1,6,7  Frankly 59:24 
9:13,14 15:7 
15:11 19:24 
31:2 35:17 
41:15 56:17 
57:18,22 61:14 
61:18,19,22 
fish 6:20 9:9 
13:22 14:5 
21:13 27:5,13 
27:14,15,20 
28:1 30:8,21 
36:2,3 39:18 
39:22 42:21 
43:5 

G 4:1
gain 42:20
gap-filling 9:21

further 24:19 

38:22 

63:11

G

general 1:24
5:16 60:8

fishes 61:2 
fit 31:11,24 
fits 31:14 
flexibility 24:4 
floor 60:13,14 

60:17 

flow 46:1 
fluid 11:22 
focus 51:23 

53:18 54:3,9 
54:11 

focused 40:4 
follow 6:7 
following 19:18 

22:9 

foolish 7:17 
foot 41:8 
forbid 56:13 
forced 53:5 
foreclose 6:4 

generating 49:1
Georgetown

59:1

getting 21:4

41:20

Ginsburg 9:3
12:3,4,8,25
16:9,21 59:15 

Ginsburg's

10:14

give 38:15 47:21 
52:2 55:21,22
56:2 60:12

given 26:1 27:21 
27:21 34:19,20
45:21

go 24:19 43:21 

43:25 46:1
57:20

68 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

40:19 42:11,18 
42:24 44:14,22 
46:8,17 47:3 
50:23 

interrupt 31:8
intuitive 11:23
involve 38:9
irrational 10:20

industry's 23:21 
industry-wide 

10:25 29:1
irrationality

inference 28:21 

issue 5:12 59:21 

29:5

60:9

J

J 2:5 3:8 29:18 
job 51:9,20
Joseffer 1:24 3:3 

3:11 4:6,7,11
5:22 7:11 8:3,6 
8:22 9:13 10:9 
10:25 11:15
12:6,15 13:10 
14:10,12,16,19
14:24 15:5
16:13 17:6,11
17:18,21 18:3 
18:14,19 59:4 
59:5,9,19
61:14
JR 14:12
judge 58:8,18

59:2

judgment 20:20
42:5,25 43:2,3 
44:10

Justice 1:25 4:3 
4:11 5:18 6:7 
7:16 8:5,15 9:3 
9:11 10:7,12
10:14 11:8
12:3,4,8,24,25
14:8,9,11,14
14:17,22 15:3 
16:9,21,22
17:10,14,19
18:2,9,17,22
19:1,14,22
20:8,11,14
21:19 22:4,8
22:13,23 23:5 

H 

half 41:16 60:5 

62:11 

hands 11:1 
happen 21:13 
30:22,23,25 
31:3 39:13,14 
43:13 53:12 

happened 45:10 
45:12 52:8,20 
53:13 

happens 46:1,21 

52:1 

happy 22:23 
25:3,6,12,14 

hard 25:17 43:9 
53:14,16 57:10 
harm 6:20 11:3 

11:3 18:12 
29:11,11 36:20 
harmful 57:6,8 
harming 27:13 

27:19 

harms 33:13 
hazardous 57:4 
head 10:5 37:19 
health 27:24 
28:1 56:13 
health-based 

57:20 
hear 4:3 
hearing 22:6 
held 22:1 
help 7:10 44:3 
helps 59:13 
high 62:10 
highly 54:19 
historic 29:2 
historically 

46:13 

history 5:7 8:7 
43:22 55:5,14 

hit 16:4 
home 15:16 16:6 
honest 36:17,22 
Honor 19:17 

20:7 21:15,25 

22:12 23:18 
24:24 25:11 
26:4 27:1 28:9 
28:14 29:7 
30:3,7 32:17 
34:1,5,12 39:1 
39:13 40:16 
41:7 42:25 
43:14 46:14 
50:17 51:22 
55:1 56:16 
57:23 58:23 

hook 36:11 
horrible 29:6 
house 31:20,20 
32:11 60:21,22 

huge 31:3 43:5 

49:20 

human 27:23 
28:1 56:13 
humans 57:8 
hundreds 30:20 
hypothetical 

11:9 

I 
idea 23:7 
ignored 45:13 
imagine 43:2 
imagining 22:15 
impact 13:13 
15:11 24:16 
26:10,17 29:12 
29:24 35:13 
36:20 40:14,22 
46:25 50:9,21 
50:23 51:2 
53:16 54:2,9 
54:10 

impacts 4:22 
29:9 50:15 
51:4 52:19 
62:13 

impingement 

24:13 26:12,14 
27:9 

impinging 27:12 

imponderable 

imponderables 

53:1 

52:7 

important 15:8 

15:23 26:10 
48:13 59:21,23 
60:5 

impose 8:12 
11:2 39:20 

imposes 39:20 
imposing 6:14 
include 32:25 

33:12,23 

included 5:16 

58:23 

includes 18:18 

32:21,24 33:16 
33:16,21,22 
34:3 

including 14:1 

16:7 62:10 

incommensur... 

incompatible 

Incorporated 

6:25 

5:25 

4:5 

increase 31:3 
42:21 49:23 

incredible 57:12 
increment 39:24 

39:25 45:22 
incremental 

62:6,8 

increments 

45:25 

indicates 8:24 

41:22 

28:25 

information
45:24 51:23
52:11,13,14,25
57:10,12,15
informative

12:18

inquiries 34:14
inquiry 34:3

insane 39:10,12

35:15

40:5

inside 16:5
instance 27:5,17

57:19

Instructed

40:11

instruction 55:2
intact 14:13
intake 4:16 5:15 

6:23 7:16,21
8:8,9 13:22 
27:25 40:2,13
56:14 60:3
intend 14:20
intended 14:14
14:18 19:11
29:13

interested 22:6
interlocutory

59:21

13:7 

5:9 

indication 5:2,6 

interpretation

individual 33:24 
industry 9:5 

31:6 33:14,17 
33:22,23 34:4 
34:7 35:22 
36:8,10 39:7 

4:23 32:18
40:4

interpreted

32:19 46:13
47:14

interpretive

4:18

69 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

kill 36:22 
killing 36:20 
kills 36:23,23,25 
kind 6:14 7:20 
9:4 10:13 29:4 
29:6 30:11 
39:23 45:15,22 
47:16 52:25 
53:22 54:17 
61:8 

23:9,13,16 
24:18,25 25:3 
25:9,12,21,25 
26:5,19 28:7 
28:11,21 29:3 
29:15,17,20 
30:1,4 31:8,17 
32:8,22,23 
33:9,19 34:6 
34:10,15 35:1 
kinds 27:22 
36:4,17,25 
30:14 55:2 
37:4 38:4,7,18 
39:4,9 40:3,24  knock 17:2 
41:4,8,18 42:6  know 6:25 7:3,4 
7:5,16,20 10:5 
42:8,14,17 
43:1,20 44:5 
17:1 20:16 
26:15 29:8 
44:11,24 45:4 
33:20 36:1,10 
46:3,6,10,19 
37:23 55:24 
47:6,10,19,23 
48:2,5,22 49:5 
61:1 62:4 
knows 61:2 
49:15 50:11 
51:6,18 52:15 
53:3,10,20 
54:5,13,16 
55:4,9,19,24 
56:6,10 57:1 
58:4,6,17 59:3 
59:15 60:21 
61:6 63:14 
justification 

25:18 29:8
30:17 40:7,9
40:10,16,25
45:13 55:23

label 50:13
labels 12:8
language 25:17

L

48:9,9 

justified 27:11 
justify 5:9 29:24 

45:8 

K 

Katzman 58:18 

59:2 

large 26:15
larvae 6:21
latitude 26:2 
Laughter 37:3 

44:17 61:5 

law 56:25 
lawnmower 

11:19,21 

Katzman's 58:9  Lazarus 2:5 3:8 
keeping 57:19 
KENNEDY 
12:24 14:22 
15:3 19:14 
25:21,25 26:5 
26:19 

29:17,18,20 
30:3,6 31:13 
32:1,16 33:1 
33:15,25 34:9 
34:12,16 35:7 
36:16,24 38:1 
38:6,14,21 
39:6,11 40:8 

Kennedy's 14:9 
kept 45:20 57:22 

little 7:18 36:10  main 63:2,3 

49:24 52:22 

41:3,7,10 42:4 
42:7,13,15,23 
live 59:16 
43:12 44:5,18 
45:3,6 46:3,5,9  LLC 1:8 
46:12,21 47:8 
47:13,20,25 
48:4,8 49:4,7 
50:4,16 51:17 
51:21 52:16 
53:8,11 54:8 
54:15,22 55:8 
55:18,21,25 
56:9,16 57:3 
58:5,10,22 

49:23 

47:4 

location 34:19 
34:20 40:12 
locations 27:1 

27:11 35:5 

logic 9:17 63:4 
logical 36:13 

long 22:22,24 

longer 34:24 

lead 28:25 30:11 

57:8 

making 38:12 

42:3 

mandate 25:22 
26:2,21 27:24 
28:5 

mandated 30:15 
mandating 

23:19 

manifest 61:8 
manner 9:19,20 
market 21:14 
Mass 2:5 
matter 1:20 4:18 

13:20 47:11 
63:17 

40:5 57:15 
learned 57:15 
leave 25:19 
leaving 7:19 
led 45:15 
left 5:10 59:10 

61:11 

legal 44:4 
legislated 5:13 
legislative 43:22 
55:5,14 60:12 
lesser 12:13 16:2 
let's 35:19,19,25 
level 16:2 57:8 
lie 21:10 
life 10:3 
light 4:24 18:5 

37:8 

limit 10:23 

61:18 

limitation 4:17 

39:14 

limited 51:24 
limits 4:16 12:2 

26:20 27:22 

line 34:8,11 

41:10 42:2,3 
63:12,12,13 

lines 33:20 
list 28:16,18 

60:7 

listing 35:2 

look 5:11 19:23 

62:6 

3:6 18:24 

looking 44:21 
looks 4:21 44:21 

20:3,11 22:3  MAUREEN 2:3 
31:18,19 40:9 
45:21 58:11 
60:13,14,24 
61:14 

maximum 16:24 
17:4,16 18:12 
27:24 28:6 
looked 45:17,23  mean 7:13,17
8:22 13:23 
15:7,20 16:5,6 
16:15,18 17:1 
18:7 28:11 
29:3 30:23 
36:5 37:9,16
37:16 40:6 
41:16 43:9 
44:12,13 53:25 
55:6,11 60:25 
meaning 16:19 
18:11 19:18 
30:17 31:17 

lost 48:11 49:22 
lot 10:18 35:18 

40:6 49:24 
51:8 55:14 

machine 36:6,7

46:13 

36:11

M

magnitude 53:1
Mahoney 2:3
3:6 18:23,24
19:1,16 20:7 
20:10,13 21:15 
21:25 22:7,12
22:21,24 23:8 
23:12,14,18
24:18,23 25:1 
25:5,11,16,24
26:3,6,25 28:9 
28:14,24 29:7 
29:16

meaningful 37:5 
meaningless

23:7 

meanings 11:16 

12:16 15:25 
means 10:19,20
17:4,8,16,24
23:3 24:9 33:8 
33:8 51:2,3
meant 11:11 
16:11 18:11 
28:13 32:3 

70 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

measure 53:15 
44:9,12,15 
measured 13:19  months 62:19 
mechanisms 

move 20:15 

Muskey 60:15 

57:17 

61:9 

odds 7:7 
offline 62:18 
oh 63:8 
oil 43:8 
okay 21:19 
23:11 25:9 
34:15 37:2 

Muskie 20:12,14 

21:24 43:10,13  old 29:2 
45:16 51:13 
Muskie's 44:7 

once 35:11 41:4 
41:8 51:1,2,3 
ones 10:2 13:16 

paralyzed 52:20 
paramecium 
36:12 37:22 
Pardon 14:16 
part 6:2 36:9 

53:8 

particular 9:1 
36:20 46:24 
47:2,22 48:24 
49:16 52:17 
60:24 

pass 7:25 
pay 37:14 41:24  plants 27:12 

46:5 

phrase 11:17 
12:22 20:4 
55:15 

phrasing 8:23 
pipes 6:23 7:17 
place 8:1 
plain 30:17 

31:17 

plankton 6:21 

7:2 10:8 
plant 25:25 

36:10 48:24 
49:1 

43:5,5 49:20 
62:17,18

please 4:12 19:2 

29:21 

point 7:9 9:14 

21:22 23:18,23
25:5 29:6 
37:13 42:3 
53:21,21 54:25 
60:1,23 61:7 
63:3 

points 7:11 8:4 

13:14 63:3 
policy 38:22 
political 53:5 

54:19 

pollutant 12:19 

12:21 13:15 
15:21 

pollutants 5:12 

5:14 13:23 
14:21 24:8 
28:5 56:19,19
57:5,5 60:4,6 
pollution 12:1 

13:25 14:1
46:14 62:21

population 27:5

27:19

posited 45:12
position 9:18
17:15 30:6 

6:24 

mentioned 

16:21 61:19 
62:14 

merely 18:13 
method 9:7 
metric 26:13 
million 7:2 

31:21 36:2,3 
millions 6:22 

30:19,20 

mind 6:13 7:23 

41:19 

minimal 17:12 
minimis 37:1,2 

63:12 

minimization 

16:16,17 

minimize 13:18 

15:19,23,24 
16:4,15 17:3,8 
17:8,16 18:11 
24:15 51:3 
minimized 

40:22 

minimizing 4:22 

13:13 15:10 
16:10 17:20 
26:9 29:23 
33:4,8 35:13 
36:19 40:14 
50:20 53:18 
minimum 6:3 

59:13 

minimus 9:2 
minutes 59:4 
mirrors 53:22 
moment 13:4 

44:6 

monetary 62:24 
monetized 9:25 

21:16 

money 41:23,24 

41:25 42:2 

N

N 3:1,1 4:1 
name 47:24
national 27:8
35:25 61:19

nationwide 62:2
Nation's 62:15
navigational

29:11

necessarily

15:12,16 24:9 
24:16 61:17
necessary 50:8
need 16:8 60:1 
needs 16:7 19:12 

61:17

Neither 36:12
never 22:10 30:9 

30:22,23,24
39:11,12,13,13
45:17,21 61:3 

new 62:17
note 58:12
notice 45:6,6,7
novel 60:11
number 62:5
numbers 27:12

27:15 61:1

numerous 5:13 

O 
O 3:1 4:1 
object 20:15 
obverse 60:24 
obvious 54:6 

61:23 

25:13 

particularly 

42:19 49:18 
payment 15:17 
penalty 49:19 

14:20 16:7 
one's 11:1,22 
opine 61:17 
opinion 58:12 
opinions 59:12 
opponent 61:8 
opposite 51:22 
oral 1:20 3:2 4:7  penny 62:4 
people 10:2 
13:22 14:6 
37:10 43:7 
percent 21:14 
45:25 49:19 
62:17 

order 19:5 
orders 53:1 
ordinary 10:3 
15:25 16:1,19 
originally 56:25 

18:24 29:18 

57:4 

ought 25:19 
outer 61:18 
outrageously 

8:19 

perfectly 15:24 

16:18 35:7 
performance 
32:4 39:21 
44:20 47:17 
49:8 57:18 
61:19 62:3 

outside 8:16 
outweigh 5:4 
outweighed 62:9  permissible 9:19 
overregulation 

permit 4:14 
permitted 35:9 

43:16 

overrule 58:11 
overruled 58:8 

P

P 4:1
page 3:2 26:11 

31:18 43:21
51:13 55:4,4,5
55:13,14,19,22

panel's 58:7,8
paperwork

16:16

56:7 58:19 

permitting 7:13 
perspective 

23:21 38:16 
Petitioner 1:4 

1:14 

Petitioners 1:9 
2:2,4 3:5,7,12 
4:10 18:25 
59:8 

petrol 43:9 
phase 45:20 

71 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

63:5 

quantity 10:7 
possibility 30:18  procreate 27:14  question 9:10 

52:21 54:3 

protected 11:24  quick 19:10 
protecting 11:23 

26:13 

47:21 

possible 6:20 
16:1,25 17:5 
17:17 18:13 
32:14 42:11 
43:15 45:3 
46:18,18 
Post 31:19 
posture 59:22 
potential 27:14 
power 27:12 
33:24 62:16 
practicability 

60:18 

practicable 

56:21 

practicably 

60:19 

practical 12:9 
13:20 19:24 
20:17 22:18 
37:24 38:3 
58:2 

preclude 4:23 
premise 6:12 

14:9 

prescribed 

25:14 

presumably 

presume 13:12 

16:5 

15:6 

prevent 21:11 
price 42:19 
principles 4:18 
prior 58:8 
probably 17:13 

23:21 26:7 
44:15 

problem 41:18 

problems 19:13 

60:11 

35:19 

process 10:20 

43:19 52:4,10 

promulgate 
33:2 39:23 
47:16 

prosperous 

48:25 

protect 27:4,23 

28:1 30:20 

42:20 

protection 2:1 
3:4 4:9 13:21 
59:7 

provided 13:25 
proving 40:4 
provision 5:16 
5:19,21 12:18 
13:17 14:12 
56:23 57:23 
58:1,5 

provisions 4:25 

5:13 12:17 
13:24 14:6 
60:4 

prudent 16:8 
PSEG 1:8 
public 54:3 
pulling 6:20 
purely 43:5 
purport 10:13 
purporting 

10:18 62:23 
purpose 33:11 

33:12 

pursues 15:13 
put 39:14 40:5 

49:2 50:13 
57:21 

puts 11:6 
putting 6:23 

Q 
quality 6:2 

52:19 53:15 
quantify 10:5 

10:14,15 12:25 
14:9 19:23 
21:9,9 24:5 
33:10 34:1 
41:12,15 42:8 
46:7 47:4 
49:11 60:23,24 

quite 20:18 

31:14 36:19 
40:15 45:3 
47:7 48:25 
49:23 62:14 

quote 16:16 

R

R 4:1
raises 6:9
ranges 27:10
ratio 62:12
rational 53:6,17
reach 21:3,22

39:9,12
read 10:21

16:12 19:19
20:24 27:24
43:22 50:12
51:13,13 55:13 
55:19 61:9

reading 12:23
15:22 59:12

real 23:23 31:18 
53:11,12 60:13 

reality 44:4
really 10:16,18

29:6 37:14
39:23 41:16
49:2 53:14
62:14,19 63:3 

reason 13:21

15:6 27:3
30:10 31:2
36:18,21 38:25 
53:3,7,11,12

reasonable 16:2 

54:22 

regard 15:14 
regardless 42:11 
17:11,12,13,22  regulated 30:19 
17:25 18:4,5 
18:17 28:25 
29:14 

regulation 13:11 
47:12 52:13,22 
57:11,16 

39:24 56:20 

reasonableness 
17:23,25 18:8 
20:21 

reasonably 

regulations 5:4 
5:8 13:5,7 19:7 

regulatory 

16:24 17:5,17 
43:19 52:4,21 
18:12,15 19:19  rejected 39:15 
31:6 33:17 
42:23 

58:14 

recognition 9:15  remainder 
recognized 9:4,6 
record 60:12 
red 51:10 
reduce 15:25 

18:20 

reasoned 19:9 

19:12 

reasons 4:19 
30:25 31:1,9 
42:7 58:11,23 

rebuttal 3:10 
18:21 59:5 
recirculating 

25:22 

16:2,10,12,22 
16:24,25 17:1 
17:9,10,16 
18:11,13 26:14 
50:9 62:16 
reduced 17:2 
reducing 17:4 

27:9 33:7 

reduction 16:15 
16:18 17:12,12 
17:19,22 18:4 
18:5 20:6 46:1 

referring 8:7 

24:7 

refers 17:11 
refined 21:12 
reflect 40:13 
reflects 13:5 
reform 39:20 

relation 20:1 
relationship 
4:15 5:1 6:5 
14:2 18:6,16 
relative 11:5,5
relatively 60:11 
relevant 16:20 

18:1 23:10 
44:2 50:22 
54:11,13,15

remaining 59:4 
remains 51:8 
remand 59:22 
remanding 45:8 
remember 
39:19 44:1 
52:17 

replace 49:22 
reply 9:1 
require 4:25 
8:12 48:5 
49:17 56:12 
62:17,18

required 5:19 

6:2 12:20 14:2 
15:17 27:7 
40:11,11 56:7 
56:7 

requirement

requires 17:3 

31:5 

19:6 

72 

Alderson Reporting Company 

requiring 11:25 
reserve 18:20 
resolved 19:18 
Resource 46:15 
respect 7:20 8:8 

10:6 24:5 
27:17 59:1 
62:2 

Respondents 
2:6 3:9 9:22 
22:1 29:19 
63:4 

response 56:11 

56:15 

responses 56:16 
result 30:14 

39:12 43:6,7 
45:15 48:7 
49:22 53:17 
57:12 

results 21:11 
29:1 39:10 
40:5 55:3 63:8 

retrofitted 

revenues 44:22 

62:19 

48:20 

RICHARD 2:5 

3:8 29:18 

rid 20:4 
ridiculous 56:11 
right 5:22 10:22 

15:5 18:14 
23:5,17,17 
26:22 34:21 
35:7 38:6,6 
40:10,11 42:6 
43:4,12 46:9 
47:11 51:17 
52:22 55:18 
57:16 

rigorous 13:1,4 
13:8 15:4,4,6 

risk 16:4 
Riverkeeper 1:6 

1:11,16 4:5 
58:9,12,13,17 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

58:24 59:10 

road 37:11 
ROBERTS 4:3 

5:18 11:8 
18:22 29:15,17 
35:1 40:3 
44:11,24 45:4 
58:4,6,17 59:3 
63:14 

24:18,25 25:3 
25:9,12 30:1,4 
32:8,22 33:9 
33:19 34:6,10 
34:15 48:22 
49:5 56:6,10 
57:1 

scant 5:15 
searching 38:11 

44:2 

robust 61:15 
rosa 53:24 54:25  second 5:2 9:3 
route 15:17 
routinely 10:10 
rule 21:18 
rulemaking 

set 13:2 44:3 
setting 4:15 19:3 
show 6:3 27:19 

37:4 47:1 
48:11,14 

side 11:6,7 17:7 

28:11,21 29:3 
32:23 41:18 
42:8,14 47:10 
47:23 48:2,5 
53:3,10,20 
54:13,16 

60:22,22 61:24  Souter's 44:6 
spawn 27:15 

significant 

28:15 62:14,20  specific 5:13 7:1 

significantly 

23:25 61:21,25 

9:1 54:18 
55:22 

specifically 5:19 
similar 24:10 
Similarly 15:19 
speed 52:10 
simply 20:5 23:5  spend 30:19 

9:23 13:20 
15:23 22:1,9 
22:25 23:6 
30:5 41:16 
45:7 50:6 
61:20,23 62:11  singlemindedly 

42:10 47:24 

single 28:3 

52:9 

ruling 22:9 

S
S 3:1 4:1 
safeguards

30:17 35:17
satisfied 22:9

48:7

save 36:1,2,3,11
39:22,25 43:5 

saving 39:18
saw 52:19 53:13 
saying 17:3,5
22:10 23:6
25:6 37:14,15
39:16 42:9
43:25 48:3
50:4,13 51:19 
53:22 56:2

says 9:11 13:18 
19:25 20:5,18
20:18,20,25
28:19 33:1,3
35:25 38:5
40:10 55:6,9
55:10,15 60:18 

scales 11:7

61:24

SCALIA 16:22

17:10,14,19
18:2,9,17

section 16:16 
28:16 29:22 
40:10 55:23 
56:20,24 57:1 
sections 28:17 
secure 37:10 
see 21:5 31:10 
31:24 36:4,5 
38:19,19 41:6 
41:9 45:17 
46:22 51:6,16 
53:20 55:12 
61:6 

15:13 

site 6:25 40:19 
site-specific 
6:17 7:24 
34:17 35:9,23 
40:20 42:24 
sitting 38:11 
situation 56:14 
situations 56:12 
six 43:22 
size 49:9 
sleeping 21:10 
slightly 22:19 
slow 52:9 
small 39:25 

seek 46:25 
Senator 20:12 
20:14 21:24 
43:10,13 44:7 
45:16 61:9 

42:20 48:25 
smoke 53:22 
snail 56:15 
Solicitor 1:24 
sense 7:18 8:20 
somebody 11:9 
10:15,19 11:4 
son 55:7,9 
14:4 28:3 
38:12 41:22,25  soon 37:1 

sensible 7:22 

sorry 5:5,6 9:13 

33:7 

sensibly 7:1 
sentence 28:4 

60:2,8 

separate 5:12 

56:23 

serious 45:21 

30:13 

sort 33:16 47:14 

48:10 54:2 
sorts 33:14 
Souter 6:7 7:16 

8:5,15 9:11 
10:7,12 28:7 

37:9,11 

spring 11:20 
stage 19:4 
stake 56:13 
standard 4:20 

6:1,3,4,14 8:17 
8:23 10:21 
12:12 13:19 
14:15,18,20
15:1 20:21 
22:14 23:20,22
24:6,7,11,17
26:4 29:5,10 
37:18 39:23 
60:16,16,17

standards 11:2 
12:13 13:2,5,9
13:14,15 14:5 
14:23,25 19:24 
27:23 32:5 
37:23 39:21 
44:21 47:14,17
49:9 59:24 
61:20 62:3 

standing 23:20 
start 6:12 19:3 

23:24 59:9 
statement 6:8 
44:6 60:15,17

statements 

60:14 

States 1:1,21
statisticians 

73 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

10:11 

statute 5:7 7:9 

10:22 13:2 
19:19 23:3 
26:5,6,9 32:4 
33:1 40:25 
43:10 52:3 
55:6,15 56:20 
63:12 

statutes 46:15 
statute's 4:24 
statutory 4:20 
28:16 30:17 
40:9 45:13 
47:11 55:23 
staying 16:5 
step 6:11,11 
19:18 41:6 
57:22 

STEVENS 14:8 

14:11,14,17 
46:3,6,10,19 
47:6,19 

56:24 

substantial 

27:14 

subtle 8:21 
suddenly 51:11 
suggest 16:11 
suggested 21:24 
suggesting 

30:12 

suggestion 

61:12 

suite 35:3 
Sunday 31:19 
supply 62:16 
supporting 2:2 
3:5 4:10 59:8 
supports 5:23 
suppose 36:5 

43:4 

supposed 28:22 
Supreme 1:1,21 
sure 6:18 8:3 

63:8 

Stone 46:23 47:9  swimmers 61:3 
stop 20:18 
system 25:22,23 
straight 25:18 
strange 32:9 
strict 13:13 62:4 
stricter 5:3,8 

systematically 

26:22 27:4 

10:1 

systemic 43:18 
systemically 

14:5 

strong 47:7 

48:20 

stronger 16:10 
strongly 5:23 
struck 40:17 
structures 8:8 

8:10 13:22 
27:25 40:2,13 
sub 53:23 54:25 
subject 5:17 

52:7 56:21,22 
56:23 

submitted 63:15 

63:17 

subsection 6:13 

7:25 

subsequent 

56:1 

T

T 3:1,1
take 17:7 20:5 

21:10,12,20,23
22:10,14 28:19 
29:9,11 34:17 
37:8,12,17,20
38:5 40:19
42:18 47:21
48:23 49:6,7,9
49:13 50:1,3,5
50:7,8,9,19,23
51:15 52:17
53:23,25 55:16 

taken 41:1,5

42:22 62:18 
talk 9:18 18:4 

37:6 

talked 21:6 
talking 6:19 
7:19 11:22 
15:15 18:3 
23:24 27:10 
36:7 45:23,25 
54:6 56:14 
62:15 63:5,8 

talks 19:25 
24:11 26:9 

tape 51:10 
technical 6:23 

technologically 

51:11 

32:5 

technologies 
35:3,6 56:22 

technology 4:21 
4:24 6:1,4 7:21 
8:13 10:24 
11:19,21 12:10 
12:16,19,22 
13:12 15:9,10 
15:21 20:1,16 
22:3 27:25 
28:6 29:25 
33:3,3,6 34:18 
34:18,22,24 
35:10,11,14,20 
36:2 37:19 
38:24 39:20 
40:1,13,18,23 
44:13,23 45:5 
50:24 51:1,14 
53:18 54:12 
56:21 58:2,20 
62:7 

technology-ba... 

32:4 39:21 
44:20 47:17 
49:8 57:18,21 
technology-dr... 
6:14 7:8 10:21 
technology-fo... 

12:12 

television 11:9 
tell 18:10 37:1 
55:11,13,14 

ten 42:21 
tends 17:25 
term 26:22 
terms 9:15,23 
29:14 39:7 
41:21 49:12 

test 23:11 24:20 
24:21,24 25:7 
25:14 60:18 
text 24:10 55:5 

63:5 

Thank 18:22 

29:15,16 59:3 
59:9 63:14 

thermal 27:18 
they'd 45:24 
thing 10:14 11:1 
14:25,25 22:19 
36:13 38:10 
44:1 50:12 
62:23 

things 9:12 18:6 

21:3 22:18 
29:9 33:14 
37:12,20 38:18 
45:19 50:10 
51:12 61:1,10 
61:18 62:9 
think 6:10,12 
10:14,16,25 
11:11,13,23 
12:13,16,24 
13:11 14:4,11 
14:17,19 17:7 
17:15,19 18:14 
19:17,17,21 
21:21,21 22:15 
23:18 24:6,8 
25:6,9,16 
26:22 28:24 
29:7,12 30:10 
30:14 31:13,13 
32:1 34:2,13 

35:12,14,18 
36:3 40:8,15 
41:1,20 43:12 
43:24 44:24 
49:11 50:17 
51:4 52:23,24 
52:25 53:8,9 
53:12,12,16,20 
53:21 54:7,8 
54:25 55:6,8 
58:12,18 59:11 
59:23 61:16 
63:4 

thinking 7:18 
12:11 50:13 

third 62:13 
thought 18:10 

35:4 44:4 50:3 
51:6 59:20 
60:14 

thousand 7:2 

37:10 

three 4:19 8:4 
30:16,25 31:9 
36:25 46:11,12 
46:20 62:11 

throw 11:1 
thumb 11:6 

61:24 

tied 51:10 
time 13:25 16:6 
18:21 20:12,15
44:13 56:24 
60:11 

times 42:21 

43:22 

today 4:4 16:4 
44:15,16 45:1 
told 11:9 33:5 
toll 15:18 
tools 19:12 
total 20:1 
totally 43:23 
tougher 14:15 

14:18,20
tower 49:2 
towers 29:1 

74 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

35:21 59:11 
60:23 

voluminous 

28:4 

W 

want 13:21 31:8 

37:16 39:23
51:9 52:2,17
54:23 56:2
57:7 60:13
wanted 14:5

44:7

wants 36:12
warrant 59:23
Washington
1:18,25 2:3 
31:19

water 1:13 4:14 
4:16 5:14 8:8,9 
14:13 16:14
27:5,13,20
28:2 32:2,18
36:21,22 40:2 
40:13 46:1,15
52:19 53:14
56:1 57:4,5,13
57:23 60:3

went 22:10 
we're 7:19,25 

9:24 18:3 
34:12 45:22 
50:19 52:22 

we've 8:1 57:16 
wholly 8:13,18 

8:23 23:25 
24:23,25 25:1 
25:8,10,18 
26:3 27:2 
37:24 45:14 
51:12 

wide 40:19 
winterizing
11:19,21 

wonder 37:14 
word 12:22 

written 43:10 
wrong 4:17 23:6 
59:2,11,20,25 

X
x 1:2,17
Y
year 27:15
years 4:13 8:9 

19:4 21:5
22:16 23:17,19
24:20 32:19
44:14,25 45:11 
45:13

Z
zero 26:16
$

15:22,24 16:19 
16:25 17:1 
$100 55:7,10,17
20:8 23:6 28:8  $100,000 36:6
31:14,18 32:8 
$400 11:21
34:1,2,2 41:11  $50 31:21
41:12 
$500 11:22
words 6:15,19
7:22 11:15 
12:15 15:7,8 
26:13 44:3 
61:16 

07-588 1:5 4:4 
07-589 1:10 
07-597 1:15

0

work 6:18 7:5,6 

way 7:22 11:6 
15:13,16 21:6 
21:11,23 29:14 
35:20 38:7,8
38:12 40:1
47:13 48:14 
51:16,24 53:23  worried 43:14 
54:4,6 57:4 

7:24 11:20 
16:8 40:2 
51:16 57:17 

works 56:4 

1

1 58:9,13,18

59:10 

1.2 21:14 
10 62:18 

towns 29:2 
toxic 7:19 14:1,6 
24:8 56:19,19 
57:5 

17:14 24:20 
26:10 37:15 
understanding 

6:10 

understood 5:24 

54:1 

27:9 52:10 
undesirable 

toxics 57:13,14 
traded 12:6 
translate 44:4 
travel 16:8 
tried 45:19 57:9  United 1:1,21 
triggered 31:4 
unnecessary 
trillions 37:9,11 
trivial 17:23 
true 14:18 24:22 
try 21:12 37:22 

unreasonable 

51:10 

4:17 

unprecedented 

38:14 52:6 
53:19 55:6 
62:3 

usage 16:1 
use 8:13 9:7,8 
10:24 14:22 
15:8 16:14 
20:8 23:6 25:8 
25:10 28:7,13 
37:19,20 47:14 

trying 16:3 37:4 

38:12 51:22 
Tuesday 1:19 
turn 63:2 
turns 53:14 
TV 10:3,4 11:10  uses 15:8 

8:12 

UTILITY 1:13 
U.S 16:17 
V 

v 1:5,10,15 4:5 
vague 22:19 

23:10,14 

value 10:8 11:24 

44:10 48:6 
53:15 

values 61:2 

62:24 

variance 46:25 

11:12,14 

two 4:25 6:11 

7:11 12:8 
13:14 14:25 
15:24 19:23 
36:23 37:23 
38:18,21 44:14 
44:25 56:16 
58:11 59:12 
61:18 

U 
uh 42:20 
ultimate 29:4 
unambiguously 

6:4 19:20 

unbelievably 

57:10 

47:10,21 48:1  ways 21:4 
48:9,10,12,14  weak 48:19 
48:18,19,20,23  weigh 30:9 39:1 
61:20 

variances 27:18 

41:14 43:17 
51:25 52:6 
weighed 62:5 
weighing 52:6 

54:2 56:5 
62:22 

weight 60:13 
weird 32:15,16 

underregulati... 

27:21 

underscores 
11:17 60:9 
62:25 

43:15,18 45:16  variety 62:9 
versus 62:7 
vexing 19:13 
view 5:22,23 
17:7,8 26:1 

understand 

43:15,16 45:16  10:05 1:22 4:2 
51:18 

11 58:12 

30:8,24 35:12 
35:15 39:3 
42:1,5 44:10 
49:2,12 51:5 
wouldn't 8:19 

worth 7:2 21:13  11:07 63:16 
1251(f) 16:17 
169a 26:11 
170 43:21 51:13 
18 3:7 
1970s 47:15 
25:13 32:10,11  1972 13:24 
34:4,5 43:13 
51:9 52:10 
58:7 

38:23 41:17 
42:15 43:14 
52:18 53:11,12 

75 

Alderson Reporting Company 

Official - Subject to Final Review 

9 
98 45:25 
98% 61:3 

56:17 57:22 

1976 31:15 
1977 7:13 8:11 

57:14 58:2 

1989 14:3 
2 

2 1:19 41:6 
58:12,24 
2.4 49:19 
20 43:4 49:20 

62:17 

200-foot 29:1 
2008 1:19 
25a 58:12 
287a 26:18 
29 3:9 

3 

30 4:13 8:9 19:4 

21:5 22:16 
23:16,19 24:20 
32:19 45:11,12 

301 56:20 
301(b)(2) 57:25 
304 56:20 
304(b)(2) 58:1 
307 56:24 57:1 

57:22 

316a 27:16 
316(b) 19:21 
29:22 39:19 
40:10 55:23,24 
56:1,17 
33 16:17 
355a 27:8 
4 

4 3:5 62:16 
40% 62:15 
400-megawatt 

49:20 

5 
5.3 49:19 
50 37:10 
500,000 27:15 
59 3:12 

76 

Alderson Reporting Company 

