Official - Subject to Final Review

   IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DWAYNE GILES,                     :
            Petitioner            :
       v.                         :  No. 07-6053
CALIFORNIA.                       :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Tuesday, April 22, 2008

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:02 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
MARILYN G. BURKHARDT, ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf
   of the Petitioner.
DONALD E. DE NICOLA, ESQ., Deputy State Solicitor, Los
   Angeles, Cal.; on behalf of the Respondent.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

1

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                   C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
MARILYN G. BURKHARDT, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                       3
DONALD E. DE NICOLA, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondent                      25
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
MARILYN G. BURKHARDT, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                      46

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

2

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                            (11:02 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
next in Case 07-6053, Giles versus California.
            Ms. Burkhardt.
              ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARILYN G. BURKHARDT
                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
            In Crawford this Court made clear that in
order to determine the scope of the Confrontation Clause
we look to the common law and particularly as it existed
at the time of the framing.  And, as we have shown in
our briefs, the -- California's forfeiture rule did not
exist in common law.  It did not exist at the time of
the framing.  And the common-law concept that is
embodied in the Confrontation Clause has grave,
practical importance to defendants, and particularly to
the defendant in this case, because the application of
this new forfeiture rule that California created
deprived the Petitioner of his right to present a fair
claim of self-defense.
            Basically, the statement that was admitted
accused the Petitioner of having viciously attacked
Miss Avie and having threatened her at knifepoint and

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

3

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

having threatened to kill her.  And the admission of
this statement, which he never had a chance to
cross-examine or attempt a cross-examination, obviously
was highly prejudicial because it indicated to the jury
that he was planning to kill her.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But he got -- he got on
the stand, and he said some very nasty things about her.
I mean he painted her as aggressive, vengeful.  Isn't
there a legitimate rebuttal when he is painting her as
the aggressor, and she has given a statement that
suggests that he is the one who was aggressive?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, Justice Ginsburg, the
-- her statement came in, in the prosecution's
case-in-chief.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But could it have come in
as rebuttal of his testimony, the same testimony by the
police?  Was it the police officer that --
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Yes.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- took her statement?
Okay.  He gets on the stand, and he says all of these
unpleasant things about her.  And then the State says,
okay, now we have our chance, and we are going to put in
her statement through the testimony of the police
officer to rebut what he has just said.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, the difference is that

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

4

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

his statements about her went solely to his state of
mind.  They did not come in for their truth, but her
statements came in for their truth.  So it really isn't
an apples-and-oranges comparison.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I would think that the
difference is that his statements about her were subject
to cross-examination.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Indeed, of course.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And her statements about
him were not.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Exactly.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But we are not -- well,
but we are talking about the door -- the door opening
here at trial.  Did he give notice that he was going to
testify in California?  Do they have some rule that if
you're going to testify, you have to give notice?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  He did indicate that he was
going to present a claim of self-defense, and I believe
he indicated that he was going to testify.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  That tends to diminish
somewhat, but not entirely, your, I think, quite proper
response that this came in on direct not -- not cross.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, Justice Kennedy, the
fact that it was a self-defense claim is irrelevant.
This testimony would have come in -- her testimony or

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

5

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

hearsay statements would have come in even if he hadn't
presented a self-defense claim.  It just was a
coincidence in this case.
            And California claims that they have a right
to introduce such testimonial statements in any case in
which they can show that the defendant was the cause of
the witness's absence.  I mean the case --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Maybe they would be wrong
-- maybe they would be wrong in another case, but we
have this case, and Justice Scalia has suggested, I take
it, that this testimony could not come in even by way of
rebuttal.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Right.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Even by way of
cross-examination.  Do you -- do you share that view?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  I do.  It -- it doesn't
really go to any of the claims --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  It may go to his
credibility.  He has just painted a picture of this
woman which is quite different from what her statement
to the police officer would portray.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, the injustice here,
Justice Ginsburg, is that he doesn't have a -- any
meaningful opportunity to contest what the police
officer says she said because he never had an

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

6

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

opportunity to cross-examine her.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, of course -- of
course, that's true.  That is the reason for the
confrontation -- confrontation rule.  But it does seem
to me that this is responsive to his defense; and you
say, well, it's his state of mind, and her testimony was
general.  I think it does go to his state of mind.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I'm not following you.  Is
there -- is there an exception to the hearsay rule so
long as the hearsay is brought in, in rebuttal?  Is
there a rebuttal exception to the hearsay rule?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Not to my knowledge.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But we are talking here
about the definition or the contours of the equitable
rule, the forfeiture rule, for confrontation.  And I
think perhaps what Justice Ginsburg was suggesting, and
certainly what I was suggesting, is that when we are
looking at whether or not there is a forfeiture, we are
talking about equitable considerations.
            Now, it's true in this case we are presented
with an instance that I've never seen, which is that the
murder itself makes the declarant unavailable for
purposes of the equitable exception.  And it is true
that that goes much further than the common law did.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  It goes much further; and,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

7

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

indeed, the State has not cited one single case at
common law or after that supports its view that this
rule is proper.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  How much are we supposed to
follow the common law, in your opinion, as it was in the
18th century or 12th century, or something?  I mean
suppose, to take a fanciful example -- I mean -- but
suppose there was a common-law rule.  And I know there
wasn't, but suppose there was a common-law rule that
said in cases involving witches you cannot admit any
evidence because either the witch, the accused witch,
came up out of the water when they were dunking her,
and, therefore, she is guilty, so there is no need; or
she is under water, which shows she is, you know,
guilty, but you can't cross-examine a person under
water.
            Now if there were a rule like that, would we
now incorporate it into the Constitution of the United
States?  The answer is meant to be no.
            (Laughter.)
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Now, let's get more
realistic.  There are all kinds of rules --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  He is thinking about
Cambridge and not England.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

8

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  So there are all
kinds of rules of disqualification of witnesses in the
17th and 18th century.  You couldn't testify.  In this
case there would have been no admission if she had been
married to the man instead of being his girlfriend.  You
couldn't have a spouse; you couldn't have an interested
party; you couldn't have a child who didn't understand
the oath; you couldn't have a person who was an atheist;
you couldn't have somebody who was a convicted felon.
            So now are we supposed to incorporate all of
these things into the Confrontation Clause?
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Do any of them have
anything to do with the Confrontation Clause?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  No.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  It doesn't have to do with
the Confrontation Clause that you couldn't cross-examine
person who didn't understand the meaning of the oath?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Justice Breyer, the
Confrontation Clause sets forth a basic policy, which is
that we are to have live testimony in court.  We have to
have witnesses available in court.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  So what about a person who
-- the same facts that he could not -- wasn't eligible
to testify?  At common law you never could have gotten

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

9

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that person to testify in court, no matter what.  And,
therefore, what?  That's what I'm asking, if we are
supposed to follow all of the contours of that rule.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, in Crawford this Court
said we do look to --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  But, now, does
that make sense?  For example, if this woman had been
married, she could not.  She -- her testimony -- whether
your client deliberately procured her absence,
accidentally procured her absence, whatever he did, that
testimony could not have come in, is that right, if she
was married to him?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, that's sort of -- that
sounds like, say, the situation in Crawford that --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, but I think what
Justice Breyer is saying --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I'm trying to drive at what
the contours are.  Which ones do we ignore, and which
don't --
            MS. BURKHARDT:  -- sets forth the proper
contours, which is that any exception to the
Confrontation Clause must be very, very narrow.  And
they approved an exception for witness tampering which
is deeply embedded in the common law.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But I think what Justice

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Breyer's line of questioning points out is that there
were other provisions of the evidence rule followed in
England which would not allow the testimony to come in,
in the first place.  In this case, we wouldn't even have
the issue before us if the testimony were not admissible
as an exception to the hearsay rule.  It is admissible.
            Then we have to ask if it conforms with the
Confrontation Clause, which is the issue we have.  But
because of the restrictions he points to, there was
never the occasion for the common law to explore the
boundaries of the forfeiture exception in the
confrontation context.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, Your Honor --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And besides which, the
question that Justice Breyer was asking was already
answered in Crawford; wasn't it?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Yes, it was.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  A case from which he
dissented.  But we did say that the meaning of the
Confrontation Clause is the meaning it bore when the
people adopted it.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  That is right.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I don't think I did --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  There was a dying
declaration rule at the common law; wasn't there?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

11

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MS. BURKHARDT:  Yes, there was.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that didn't
require any inquiry into the intent of the person
responsible for the death, or the imminent death, right?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  That's correct.  But the
dying declaration -- the fact that the dying declaration
rule existed with its very specific elements shows
powerfully that no general rule existed such as the
California rule, because if the California rule had
existed --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, if the dying
declaration rule didn't require intent, why should
yours?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Because the forfeiture rule
at -- which is a separate -- entirely a separate rule of
common law, did require intent to prevent testimony.  It
has always been viewed that way from its inception in
Lord Morley's Case --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Instead of intent, the
dying declaration rule required knowledge by the
declarant that the declarant was about to die.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Correct.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Right?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  That's right.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And the evidence of

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

12

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

truthfulness was apparently that the person was about to
enter the next world.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  That's right.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And most of us don't lie at
that particular moment.  Whereas, in the Confrontation
Clause situation you have a totally different situation.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Correct.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I joined Crawford, and
Justice Scalia would like to kick me off the boat, which
I'm rapidly leaving in any event, but the --
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You jumped off in Crawford,
I thought.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Right.  But my question --
I want to go back because what I'm finding difficult
is -- well, let's take the specific case.  Suppose they
had been married.  If they had been married in 1789, I
guess, or 1750, or 1400, or whenever, her testimony
would not have come in regardless.  I think I'm right on
that.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Yes, as a spouse.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes, as a spouse.  And,
therefore, whether he procured her absence or not is
beside the point.  Now, do we follow that rule under the
Confrontation Clause today?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

13

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I think your answer was
that in Crawford that was the situation.  It was a
spouse; wasn't it?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  I'm sorry?
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  In Crawford.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  In Crawford it was a spouse.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And it was the defendant
who said he didn't want her to testify.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  That's right.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Under the -- the
testimony of someone who heard her say something, was
that admissible?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Under -- under Crawford?
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No.  No.  Under the
common law.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  I don't think it was.
Hearsay was absolutely inadmissible.  And there were
just very, very narrow exceptions under the common law.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Like in the case of
an unavailable witness?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Of course.  Especially in
the case of an unavailable witness.  In Lord Morley's
case they set forth rules.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  There are some things
that are not just testimonial.  For example, suppose she

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

14

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

left a sealed letter.  She has been murdered, and the
letter is to be opened only upon her death, and the
letter says:  If I was done in, go after him.  Could
that come into evidence?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, Justice Ginsburg, it
depends on whether it was deemed to be testimonial or
not.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Well, is it?  I'm just
giving you --
            MS. BURKHARDT:  It's not an issue in our
case.  I mean perhaps.  I mean obviously, as you point
out, if she had made a statement to a -- not a police
officer -- to a friend, family member, or whatever, a
nontestimonial statement, then that probably could come
in.  But what is at issue here --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So what's the line
between what -- I understand that she is accusing him to
a police officer.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Yes.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So you say that's
testimonial.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  The courts --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  If she is talking to a
friend and saying that she is scared to death of this
man --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

15

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MS. BURKHARDT:  That is --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  -- the friend could
testify?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  That's perhaps
nontestimonial.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Why?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What's the difference?
If this rule is going to separate the testimonial from
the nontestimonial, you have to be able to tell when
it's one and when it's the other.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, the Court hasn't fully
described all of the parameters of "testimonial."  But
our case does not involve that issue, because this
statement is clearly testimonial.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Could I ask you whether
there is really anything involved in this case?  Both
the California Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals
said it is inconceivable that any rational trier of fact
would have concluded that the shooting was excusable or
justifiable.
            Doesn't that virtually guarantee that if
there was an error here, it was harmless error?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, no, not necessarily.
I think it's very significant that the court of

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

16

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

appeals -- neither the California Supreme Court nor the
Court of Appeals engaged in a harmless-error analysis.
And that statement that you quote presupposed that the
testimonial hearsay statement at issue was a large
factor in coming to that conclusion.  So, you know, no,
I don't think it's necessary.  That really went --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  No.  No.  Is that correct?
Weren't they concluding that, based on the independent
evidence, it was virtually inconceivable --
            MS. BURKHARDT:  No.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  No?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  No.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How do we know in
this case that part of his intent was not to prevent her
from testifying at trial?  I mean, it's obvious that he
was upset about something else, but maybe in his mind he
is saying, oh, boy, if she has talked to people about
how I'm going to kill her, I'd better do it so that she
can't testify.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  There was a specific finding
of fact by the court of appeals that he did not intend
to kill her -- he did not kill her to prevent testimony.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  How are we ever
going to know that in a typical case?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, by, you know,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

17

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

analyzing the evidence.  I mean, obviously, there are
many ways, and perhaps he made a statement.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, take a case
like this, I don't understand how that finding could
have been made.  He knew that she had reported -- that
she had said to her friends he is going to kill me; he
is going to kill me.  And then he figures he'd better do
it or it's going to -- his self-defense claim is going
to look a lot weaker.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, that -- I think, Mr.
Chief Justice, that doesn't make an awful lot of sense
because that indicates that he killed her in order to
prevent her from --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, I'm sorry it
doesn't.  It means that that may have been part of his
motive, to kill her.  Because I'm not just going to beat
her up this time; I'm actually going to kill her because
otherwise I'm going up the river.  Here he gets a great
benefit from murdering her which is that her testimony
is not available.  We usually under our system don't try
to give benefits to murderers.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, first of all, the
court of appeals specifically found that he did not kill
her to prevent testimony.  The California Supreme Court
basically adopted that finding --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

18

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I understand that,
and you've said --
            MS. BURKHARDT:  -- and the State never
challenged it.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Excuse me, Counsel.
You've said that already.  And what I'm saying is that I
don't understand under the legal standard we might
adopt, how that sort of finding makes sense.  I mean,
you don't ask him why did you kill her; was it to
prevent her testimony or not?  That's not available in
the inquiry.  So how can that sort of factual finding be
made?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, the courts have
been -- Federal and State courts have been making that
factual finding for -- for decades under the Federal
rule, and under the Carlson line of cases.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But the -- here it's his
own murder trial.  So he didn't murder her so that she
couldn't be a witness at the trial for her murder.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Correct.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But he might have
murdered her because she had good grounds to get him
indicted on criminal assault charges.  Maybe he murdered
her so that she would not be available to testify at
such a trial.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

19

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, that's highly
speculative.  There was no proceeding.  There was no
indication in the record that -- that her assault claim
was ever going to ripen into any kind of criminal
proceeding at all.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I had thought that the
common law rule is that you have to have rendered the --
intentionally rendered the witness unavailable with
regard to the particular trial that's before the court.
Not rendering the witness unavailable for some other
litigation.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  That was --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Do you know of any case
where it was some other litigation that --
            MS. BURKHARDT:  No.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I didn't think so.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  No.  That is the common law.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Let's -- let's assume that
the only case on the books pre-1789 was Morley, in which
the defendant did specifically intend to keep the
witness away from the trial.  But let's assume, contrary
to fact, that the Morley case gave a -- a very sweeping,
expansive definition of the equitable forfeiture rule
and said the defendant cannot profit by his own wrong.
            Could we take that general language pre-1789

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

20

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

and say that it supports the rule today, assuming we
could find that in the Morley case or other aspects of
the common law?  Or would we be just confined, as you
understand Crawford, to the specific holding of Morton
that there has to be a specific intent?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, the hypothetical
assumes something which is -- which Your Honor admits is
-- is simply not the case.  I'm going to suppose
assuming --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Please -- please make the
supposition.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  -- that it was there, I
suppose the Court could -- could rule on the basis of
that, but that it's definitely not the case and has
never been the case.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  All right.  Well, suppose
we read the English authorities that it does not
foreclose the expansion of the equitable forfeiture
rule.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, I -- I think the
English authorities do foreclose it, because the dying
declaration cases, and there are dozens of them, would
not have come out as they did if this expansive
forfeiture rule had existed.  It would make no sense.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I -- I find that difficult

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

to understand because the dying declaration rule came up
in many instances when the confrontation rule was not
involved at all.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  That's right.  But with
this -- but the point I'm making is this:  that under
California's theory, if the defendant is -- causes the
absence of the witness, and all you need to show is
causation, then the witness's testimonial statement will
come in; but under the dying declaration rule mere
causation is not sufficient.  You have to also show
other factors in very -- particularly that the -- that
the witness was aware of impending death.
            That requirement is totally superfluous
under the California theory; and yet it -- the fact that
no lawyer or no judge for hundreds of years ever
suggested that in those cases --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Your dying declaration
cases are not just murders, though.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  They are just murders.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  Pardon me?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  They are just murders, Your
Honor.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Really?  I thought they
came in, in civil cases all the time.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  The ones we cite are murders

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

22

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

and they are murder cases in criminal cases.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, but I -- I agree --
I'll check the, -- check --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  But the rationale for the
dying declaration rule has nothing to do with who caused
the death.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, you know, it
specifically goes to -- the element of the dying
declaration is that the statement has to relate to the
specific cause of the death.  So it really does.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  But it has to be imminent,
too.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, the death doesn't have
to be imminent specifically.
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  He has to think it's
imminent.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  But the perception is -- the
declarant has to believe --
            JUSTICE STEVENS:  But that's an entirely
different rationale from the issue we have here, because
it applies across the board to civil cases and all sorts
of litigation.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  It applies powerfully in
many, many instances to criminal cases; and that fact --
and that has existed for -- for centuries -- shows that

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

there was no general rule that all, you know, needed to
do was to be accused of murdering the victim; because
otherwise if California rule had existed, there would be
no need to make this other showing in the dying
declaration cases.
            And in many cases, as we have cited in our
brief and as the NACDL has cited, evidence -- important
evidence was kept out.  Testimonial hearsay accusations
were kept out -- from the victim accusing the defendant
were kept out because they didn't meet the specific
requirements, specifically the sense of impending death.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But the forfeiture rule is
designed to suspend the operation of the confrontation
rule.  That doesn't mean that it comes in.  You still
need another hearsay exception which will allow it in.
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Well, not under the common
law.  It was -- it was one rule under the common law.
It was only later that it operated as two separate rules
of confrontation and a hearsay rule.  Under the common
law all you needed to show was the dying declaration,
then it was admissible for all purposes.  There was no
distinction between confrontation and hearsay at that
time.
            And so therefore, again -- it just -- if all
you needed to show was that the defendant caused or

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

24

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

likely caused the absence or killed the victim, then all
of those cases went the wrong way; all of that evidence,
the victim's accusations, would have come in --
automatically.  And they did not come in; in case after
case we have showed that.  We have cited some dozens of
cases that show that.  And the State has not cited even
one single case, not one, which shows at common law that
this evidence here would have come in.
            I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time
if there are no more questions.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you,
Ms. Burkhardt.
            Mr. De Nicola.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD E. DE NICOLA
                ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
            MR. De NICOLA:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
            I think I want to start off by correcting, I
think, the impression that the common law ever stated a
rule that intent to tamper was a prerequisite for
keeping out the evidence of a -- of a victim of a
murderer.  And I don't think this Court, in the Reynolds
case, has ever -- or in the subsequent cases, has ever
stated such a rule.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, it didn't put it in

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

those very words, but I think a lot of -- of the
quotations from opinions cited by your friend seemed to
me to say that.
            But why don't you start off by telling -- by
explaining to us why these many cases excluded the dying
declaration of the murdered person when -- if it could
not be shown that the murdered person knew when the
declaration was made that he or she was dying?  If the
rule that you're announcing was the rule at common law,
all of those would have come in because that declaration
said this Defendant killed me.  And, therefore, it would
have been true in all of those cases that this defendant
procured the absence of the witness from the trial.  How
do you explain that.
            And there are many cases.  It's not just a
few.  The requirement in the dying declaration cases
that the -- that the declarant be aware of impending
death is uniform.  Why even bother with that requirement
if it could all come in under -- under this procurement
of the absence-of-the-witness rule?
            MR. De NICOLA:  Well, I think, as Justice
Kennedy's question suggested, that there are different
elements to -- that need to be surpassed before the
dying declaration would come in.
            What happens in the dying declaration

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

26

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

situation, Your Honor, is that there is no validation or
vindication of the defendant's cross-examination rights;
and that's what we are interested in here today:  How
the common law would have treated the cross-examination
right of a defendant who killed a witness.     The dying
declaration rule certainly cabins the admissibility of
dying declarations for reliability reasons, but it did
not detract from the fact that the evidence of the dying
declaration came in peculiarly when the defendant killed
the victim of the crime, the witness whose testimony was
coming in.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I'm not sure you've
answered my question.  Why wasn't it enough for the
prosecution to say:  This dying person said that this
defendant killed her; therefore, this declaration can
come in because this defendant procured the absence of
this declarant by killing her?
            MR. De NICOLA:  It wouldn't --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Nobody even ever makes
those arguments.  They fight it out on whether the
declarant was aware of impending death or not, but that
would have been totally irrelevant if it all comes in
under -- under the rule that you're arguing for here.
            MR. De NICOLA:  No, because under the rule
I'm arguing for, and why the prosecutor wouldn't have

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

27

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

succeeded in making that argument, the rule I'm arguing
for is simply that in the situation where the defendant
kills the witness the common law did not recognize, or
there is no strong case authority that would indicate
that the common law would recognize, a confrontation
right with respect to that defendant against his
witness's statement.
            Nevertheless, the common law puts some other
nonconfrontation restrictions on the admissibility of
the dying declaration.  Those were reliability-based
restrictions.  Reliability-based restrictions can't
determine the scope of the confrontation right.
            Under Crawford, the confrontation right is a
separate process that has to be adhered to and can't be
substituted with another reliability-assessment machine
unless there is a rule that would have let that
statement in that doesn't depend on a reliability
assessment.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  I understand the
distinction you're drawing at the present time or at
least since the Bill of Rights was adopted.  We have two
regimes.  We have the constitutional condition and we
have hearsay rules.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  But with respect to the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

28

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

common law as it stood at the time that the Bill of
Rights was adopted, there wasn't such a distinction; was
there?  In other words, to the extent that the
confrontation right is informed by the common- law
antecedent, the common-law antecedents were not drawing
the line that you are drawing; were they?
            MR. De NICOLA:  I think that's right, Your
Honor.
            JUSTICE SOUTER:  And if that is the case,
then it seems to me you haven't answered Justice
Scalia's question.  Because Justice Scalia's question
says:  Let's just talk about common-law antecedents for
a moment; and, given common-law antecedents, why were
people worried about the consciousness of death under
the dying declaration rule if there was this broader
rule which is supposed to inform our understanding of
the confrontation right, which would have let it in
simply because the crime had forfeited the right to
object.  And it seems to me that you still have not
answered his question.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Well, let me -- let me take
a different tack.  Under the common-law rule, if the
defendant killed the witness and the witness's statement
met the dying declaration criteria, that statement would
come in against the defendant.  But if the defendant

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

29

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

killed the same victim and you had another witness who
witnessed the crime and made a dying declaration that
qualified under the rule, that dying declaration
describing the defendant's infliction of the mortal
blow, that dying declaration would not have come in.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  If it was -- if it was
testimony.  There are a lot of declarations that are not
testimonial, and the rule is very important for those.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  There are also
declarations that are testimonial, in which case we look
to the confrontation concept.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes, but I think -- but I
think, with respect to testimonial statements, it -- I
think it gives you an insight into what the common law
would have done with respect to the alleged
confrontation rights of the murderer against the victim
to know that when the defendant murdered the victim, the
victim's dying declaration came in without regard to
confrontation.
            It might not have been excluded because it
might not have met other criteria, but it would have
come in without confrontation.  And it would have come
in without confrontation in a way that the -- the mere
witness who makes a dying declaration and witnesses the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

30

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

same crime would not have come in.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I would suppose that
there are a lot, a lot of situations in which a dead
victim has made statements pertinent to the murder.  So
wouldn't your rule drive a pretty big hole through
Crawford?
            This is not an isolated instance where the
victim said something about the murderer.  That would
seem to be a fairly common situation, because most
murders involve people who know each other.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Well, I think it would -- it
-- I think it would, it would apply in murder cases with
respect to the statements of the victim.  So I think the
-- I think the application of the forfeiture rule on a
murder basis as we are suggesting here, yes, I think it
would --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But to the extent that
Crawford is confined simply to testimonial statements,
any number of statements --
            MR. De NICOLA:  Right.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  -- that will come in under
the California evidence rule are simply not controlled
by the Confrontation Clause anyway.  It's just -- it's a
standard hearsay problem.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.  Like the California

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

31

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

Supreme Court recognized, and it was buttressed, I
think, by this Court's decision in Davis, simply because
the defendant might forfeit his confrontation rights
because he murders the victim, that doesn't necessarily
mean that he forfeits his other hearsay- rule
protections or his other constitutional-reliability
protections or his right to impeach the hearsay
declarations of the unavailable witness or his right to
contradict them or his right --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Does that mean, what you
just said, that this is not a problem in States that
have adopted the Federal Rules of Evidence?  Because, as
I understand it, there is an exception, the standard
exception, for when the defendant procures the witness's
absence for the very purpose of preventing the witness
from testifying at a particular trial.  That's the
exception that's in the Federal Rules of Evidence.  You
don't have an exception, a hearsay exception, for just
being responsible for the witness's unavailability.
            So practically, this couldn't come in under
a hearsay objection in places that have the Federal
Rules of Evidence; is that right?
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.  If the Federal rule
were interpreted to require the intent to tamper, in any
jurisdiction that decided as a matter of their own

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

32

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

hearsay policy that they wanted to govern the
admissibility of evidence along those lines, then, yes.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Doesn't it have to be
interpreted that way?  You don't contend it could be
interpreted differently?
            MR. De NICOLA:  Well, I don't know exactly
whether the Federal rule has uniformly been -- been
interpreted to require a specific intent.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Just because it says so, I
mean.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Well, there is -- I don't
think -- for example, I don't think there is a Federal
case that's been cited where the forfeiture has been
denied in a situation where the defendant murdered the
witness.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Can you give us one case
from the common law, just one, in which the procurement
of a witness's absence exception to the Confrontation
Clause was applied where there was no intent to prevent
the witness from testifying?
            MR. De NICOLA:  I don't -- I don't think I
have the case --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I don't think you do
either.
            MR. De NICOLA:  -- that -- that applied the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

33

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

rule.  But I don't think there is a case that
articulated the rule in a way that would have limited
its application.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  The reason, I think, is --
I think, if I understand Justice Scalia's question, take
ordinary hearsay?
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  There's a reason for
keeping it out, though there are many exceptions.  Now
take that subset of ordinary hearsay where it was a
statement made purposefully to go to trial.  Now there
is especially good reason for keeping it out, so like a
double reason.  And I think he finds it odd that we,
under the common law, putting us back then, would say
there's an exception where there's especially good
reason for keeping it out, see, in the testimonial case,
an exception where you go get the person murdered, but
you didn't do it purposefully.  But -- but there is no
exception in just where there's only the ordinary reason
for keeping it out.  It should seem to work the other
way around.
            Now, to me that suggests that maybe we
shouldn't follow completely the common law as it evolved
in evidentiary principles.  Maybe we have to assume an
intent to allow the contours of the Confrontation Clause

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

34

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

to evolve as the law of evidence itself evolves.
Otherwise, we get caught up in these logical
contradictions.  What do you think of that?
            MR. De NICOLA:  Well, I think that -- I
think that we can certainly take account, for example,
of situations that the common law might not have faced
or might not have recognized as representing a problem
of relevant evidence to a crime.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You wouldn't want us to get
caught up in the limitations of the Confrontation
Clause?
            MR. De NICOLA:  No, I'm not saying that,
Your Honor.  What I'm saying is that I think that,
although the Confrontation Clause under Crawford would
be accepted under the governing common-law rule at the
time, the governing common-law rule at the time included
this forfeiture doctrine, and the forfeiture doctrine I
think has been recognized -- has been based on the maxim
and the principle that no one may profit from
wrongdoing.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Do you see what my question
was?  My question is the same question I asked your
fellow counsel.  My question is, since I led you to the
point where you were willing to say maybe there is some
flexibility here, what?  That's where I'm having the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

35

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

trouble.  What precisely are the principles I should
follow to prevent my going back to look at they dunked
witches, but allowing the heart of Crawford to be
maintained.  How do I do it?
            I don't know if you can answer that
question, but that's the problem that I'm having.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Well, again, I think -- I
think the resort to the -- to the maxim and the
equitable principles that we know that common law
subscribed to and that common law subscribed to those
principles in this precise -- as a rule to decide how to
resolve this particular kind of issue where the
defendant's wrongdoing makes the witness unavailable,
that the -- that because the common law accepted this
maxim, that we can -- we can look and apply those
principles to the situation even though there might not
have been the precise common-law case an all fours.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Does the record show what
happened after the police went and received the
statements by Ms. Avie?  Did she ask -- did she ask to
have charges brought?  Did the police file a complaint?
            MR. De NICOLA:  The record doesn't show,
Your Honor.  The record doesn't show.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  As far as the record shows,
nothing happened?  They took this statement and that was

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

36

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

it?
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes, yes, in terms of --
because that was a description of the event that led to
the admissibility of the statement.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Does the record show or
did the trial indicate anything that he told the police
on the prior occasion?  They went into different rooms
and they each gave statements?
            MR. De NICOLA:  No.  No.  No.  But -- but to
the extent that this is a case where the -- the crime
occurs after there had been this prior report to an
official, this case is somewhat closer to the witness
tampering scenario that my opponent says characterized
the admissibility of these cases at common law.  So it's
not -- it wouldn't be a -- a departure from the theory
that they are proposing to recognize that in this
situation it's -- it's essentially similar.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, I think it's an
astonishingly broad exception you're asking for.  On the
other hand, testimonial statements are all that's
involved, and so that's a narrow class, and maybe that
balances out.  I'm not sure.
            But may I just ask and you can comment on it
if you -- may I ask:  The defendant gave notice that he
would testify?

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

37

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MR. De NICOLA:  Prior to trial, there was a
discussion about what sort of defense he was going to be
putting on, and he clearly indicated --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  California law requires
that?
            MR. De NICOLA:  No.  No.  It just --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Or it does not require it?
            MR. De NICOLA:  It doesn't require that.  It
just -- it happened that, in discussing the
admissibility of all this other evidence he wanted to
bring in to put words in the mouth of the victim, the
court inquired about how that would be linked up to the
defense of self-defense.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  All right.
            MR. De NICOLA:  And that's why the
defendant's lawyer indicated that the client would be
testifying and putting on -- putting on a defense of
self-defense.
            Now, I think if you look at the -- if you
look at the maxim, the logic or the rational of the
forfeiture rule, it doesn't admit of any exception for
motive to tamper.  The motive-to-tamper rule that my
opponent is proffering here I think is alien to the
rationale of the maxim.  The maxim is that no one shall
profit from wrongdoing.  The superimposition of an

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

38

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

intent requirement or a motive requirement wouldn't
change the fact that, with that intent or without the
intent, there would be the same profit from the
wrongdoing.  There would be the same damage to the
integrity of the criminal trial because the
truth-finding function of the criminal trial would be
damaged by allowing the wrongdoing to be used as the
basis for keeping out the statement of the -- of the
witness, of the victim of the crime, and allowing the
defendant to substitute in its stead his own one-sided
or half-true version of the --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Suppose the unavailability
is caused by the defendant's negligence.  Defendant
negligently runs over the victim.
            MR. De NICOLA:  I think if that were --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I mean over the declarant.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.  I think if that were a
crime, certainly, I think it would clearly satisfy --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Suppose it's negligence.
            MR. De NICOLA:  If it's mere negligence?  If
it's mere negligence, certainly that's a -- that's a
tougher call, and it might be that in a situation of
noncriminal conduct the intent to tamper conceivably
could play a role in elevating that conduct to the kind
of wrongdoing that would trigger the rule.  But I think

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

39

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

as long as you have criminal conduct and certainly where
you have a murder, the rule would be triggered and the
-- the inquiry would then be whether or not there was
causation and whether or not there would be this profit.
And the intent to tamper doesn't really relate to the
purpose of the rule to prevent the profiting.
            So you have the same profit, the same damage
to the criminal justice system, and the same prejudice
to the State, which is denied the live testimony of the
victim.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Isn't there a problem
that was brought out in the briefs with -- this man is
standing trial before a jury that's going to determine
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but if this testimony
is going to come in, the judge has to make some kind of
a preliminary finding that he killed her in advance of
the jury making that determination.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes, Your Honor.  And that
happened -- that didn't happen in this case, so that
would be, I think, the template for what would happen in
future cases.  One I think preliminary point is that in
the California Supreme Court, Giles essentially conceded
that the forfeiture rule, when it was otherwise
applicable, does apply in the case where you have the
wrongdoing being the same crime that's charged.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

40

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  If that's a fault, it's a
fault that also exists with the rule being argued by
your opponent, isn't it?
            MR. De NICOLA:  I think that's true, Your
Honor.  And it's also -- it's not -- it's not unlike the
way a Federal court would have a foundational hearing to
make a preliminary determination about the admissibility
of a co-conspirator's hearsay statement in a case where
the crime charged is conspiracy.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Maybe I have to take that
back.  Maybe it -- it's very -- it would be very unusual
that someone would kill a victim in order to prevent her
testifying at a murder trial which is not yet in
prospect because you haven't murdered her.  So these
cases may be very rare.  So maybe that is an advantage
of her rule over yours, that you would very rarely have
to find the defendant guilty of the very crime for which
he's being prosecuted in order to apply the -- the
exception to the Confrontation Clause.
            MR. De NICOLA:  I think it -- I think it
would be rare.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.
            MR. De NICOLA:  But -- but it's not -- but
it's not unheard of, and there is -- there is a pedigree
for it, and --

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

41

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It would be rare on her
theory; it wouldn't be rare on yours.  It happens all
the time on yours, I would think.
            MR. De NICOLA:  But nevertheless I think the
-- the idea that you could have the hearing even though
it's the same issue that goes before the jury, I think
is not an obstacle to applying the rule in this case.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I would think these cases
come in -- this problem comes in with spousal abuse.
Now, I don't know what the numbers are, but I bet you
could find numbers.  I suspect, but I don't know, that
in many cases where there's a death in that kind of
situation, maybe it is accidental.  Maybe the -- maybe
the man who is beating up his wife didn't really want
her to die.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  So that to me,
I guess, suggests that that's in favor of your rule, I
think.  Isn't it?
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes, I think it -- I think,
again, regardless of what defendant's intent is, the
rule and the logic of the rule applies.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  And so that would be true,
whether it was intended or whether it isn't intended.
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

42

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            JUSTICE BREYER:  Whether it's -- I mean, I'm
not sure how to even administer even a criminal/civil
distinction.
            MR. De NICOLA:  But I think the same, you
know, as was said before, the argument that what came
in, in this case, was this damaging evidence that --
that undermined the defendant's self-defense claim.
Well, that evidence would come in even under the theory
that intent to tamper were required for -- for the
forfeiture, as well as under our theory.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I think you're --
it's certainly true that this issue would come up in
domestic abuse cases --
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- but I'm not sure
that it would be at all limited.  I assume you have, you
know, gang cases --
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- any case in which
have you familiarity between the victim and the
defendant, which, as I understand it, is the most
typical case, but it's not simply in any way limited to
the domestic abuse cases.
            MR. De NICOLA:  No.  It wouldn't be limited
to the -- this case, it wouldn't be limited to the

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

43

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

domestic abuse cases, Mr. Chief Justice.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, I know your rule
wouldn't --
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  --  but the
situation in which the case arises --
            MR. De NICOLA:  Okay. --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- also would --
            MR. De NICOLA:  No.  No.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- certainly not.
It comes up quite frequently, I would assume --
            MR. De NICOLA:  In gang cases, yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- because you often
have an association with --
            MR. De NICOLA:  Yes.  And I think it can
come up in cases of -- of abuse of children, as another
example.
            So I think because there's no equitable
argument on the part of the defendant about why this
rule, this no-profit rule, would depend on an intent to
tamper, I think if you transport that back into the
common law, the same rule and the same principles of
applying, and you would -- you would have I think the
same results.
            Excuse me.  I think -- again, well, I don't

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

44

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

want to repeat myself, but I guess I just want to again
emphasize that the -- that the logic of the rule really
doesn't admit of an intent requirement.  Nothing in this
Court's cases has ever dictated an intent requirement.
Nothing in the common-law cases has ever articulated an
intent requirement, and in the common-law cases the rule
that we are advancing is justified by the maxim that
applied at the common law, and it was also justified --
well, at least I think an insight into how common law
would have devalued the confrontation rights of the
killer against the witness can be seen in the dying
declarations case.  Because even though they might
ultimately have proved inadmissible on another ground,
where the special criteria for the dying declaration
cases was not met, those cases nevertheless are
instances where the evidence comes in against the
defendant where he kills the victim.
            The slayer's cases that were recognized at
common law where no intent was required before somebody
would be barred from receiving an inequitable
distribution from an insurance policy, or from a
testator, those cases were also decided at common law
under this maxim.
            And the ultimate -- I think the ultimate
element to the analysis that proves dispositive is

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

45

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

whether or not the defendant is benefitting from the
wrongdoing.  My opponent says that there's no benefit
from the wrongdoing unless there is an intent to commit
the wrongdoing in the first place, but that's palpably
not so because you -- because you have the benefit if
you have the benefit.  And to the extent that there
is -- an intent requirement might be perceived as
necessary to provide some level of moral blameworthiness
in terms of exploiting the wrongdoing, that exploitation
occurs in any event when the defendant seeks to take
advantage of the wrongdoing by making the objection and,
as in this case, exploiting it even further at trial.
            So the equities of the situation -- there's
no, I think, personal equity that weighs in the balance
on the basis of --  in -- on the side of keeping --
keeping the evidence out.  Where there is the wrongdoing
and the causation and the profit from the wrongdoing,
the statement should come out -- should be admitted
without regard to the mental state of the defendant.
            And on that I'll submit.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Counsel.
            Ms. Burkhardt, you have four minutes
remaining.
            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARILYN G. BURKHARDT
                  ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

46

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            MS. BURKHARDT:  It State said that there is
no equity on the side -- on Petitioner's side, and
that's simply not true.  The statement is a testimony
statement; under Crawford, it clearly must be excluded;
and for the reason that it is -- you know, he has been
deprived of his right to test the accuracy of that
statement and to expose its falsity.
            He claims the statement isn't true; and
under Crawford, the -- the Framers have prescribed a
categorical procedural rule for testing whether a
statement is reliable, and that's the right to
confrontation; and he was deprived of that right and
this in turn derived him of fair -- of a fair trial.
            Now, the Framers in adopting the
Confrontation Clause understood its parameters to
include certain narrow exceptions.  And the exception --
one of the exceptions was a witness tampering exception;
and that had a very rational basis, because what it
meant, in essence, is if the defendant is going to act
against the criminal trial system from which he demands
and requires justice, he cannot at the same time
intentionally, deliberately manipulate and thwart the
criminal justice system by preventing the appearance of
-- of necessary witnesses.  So in that case, when he
does something of -- to that effect, then it's fair,

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

47

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

it's equitable and reasonable; he cannot profit from his
own wrong.
            And that maxim that a person cannot profit
from his own wrong was meant to apply to that situation.
It wasn't meant to apply in the broad, generalized,
amorphous sense that the State suggests, because that
would effectively substitute in some sort of amorphous
notions for reliability of -- I'm sorry, fairness -- for
the amorphous notions of reliability standard that this
Court just rejected by overruling Roberts.
            In fact, what's happened here is the State
is attempting to resuscitate Roberts and to eviscerate
Crawford; and it is no accident that this whole issue
arose after Crawford.  This is a post-Crawford
invention.  It did not even exist before.  And it's not
-- the ink on Crawford was barely dry before the Supreme
Court of Kansas, like six weeks later, enacted this --
this first forfeiture-by-causation rule; and then a
number of States such as California followed, and they
all cite each other as authority.
            But nothing before, because nothing before
existed.  And when this Court in Crawford said we accept
the rule of forfeiture by wrongdoing, we submit that the
Court couldn't possibly have meant this broad standard
that California created, because it did not exist at

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

48

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

that time.
            We suggest that what this Court meant, as it
indicated in Davis, is the -- essentially the Federal
rule entitled forfeiture by wrongdoing, which is
specifically directed to witness tampering.  And that
said -- and codifies, as this Court said in Davis, the
doctrine of forfeiture that has existed at the common
law; that was -- that has been understood for hundreds
of years, that was carried forward and preserved in
Reynolds, and then it was further carried forward to the
Federal rule.
            That's all we want.  We want the rule as it
has always existed, not some new expanded rule that
the -- California has just created to undermine and
eviscerate my client's rights to confrontation.  We are
just asking for a fair trial, which he did not get.  And
the notion that he is profiting.  Well, in that sense,
everyone profits from the Confrontation Clause.  It was
designed to protect defendants from encroachment on the
State.  It was designed to provide defendants a fair
trial.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  If you're right, it would
go back on the harmless error question, right?
            MS. BURKHARDT:  Yes.  It could go back to a
harmless error question or perhaps a new trial.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

49

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

            They can retrial -- retry him.  They have
plenty of evidence on which to retry him in this case.
This is why -- that's all we are asking for, a fair
trial, not a trial under a brand-new standard which they
concocted for the purpose of eviscerating Crawford,
which is exactly what happened.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 12:00 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

50

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

A
able 16:10
above-entitled

1:11 50:10

absence 6:7 10:9

10:10 13:23
22:7 25:1
26:13 27:16
32:15 33:18

absence-of-th...

26:20

absolutely 14:17
abuse 42:9

43:13,23 44:1
44:16

accept 48:22
accepted 35:15

36:14

accident 48:13
accidental 42:13
accidentally

10:10

account 35:5
accuracy 47:6
accusations 24:8

25:3

accused 3:24

8:11 24:2

accusing 15:17

24:9

act 47:19
adhered 28:14
administer 43:2
admissibility

27:6 28:9 33:2
37:4,14 38:10
41:7

admissible 11:5

11:6 14:12
24:21

admission 4:1

9:5

admit 8:10
38:21 45:3
admits 21:7
admitted 3:23

46:18

adopt 19:8
adopted 11:21
18:25 28:21
29:2 32:12

adopting 47:14
advance 40:16
advancing 45:7
advantage 41:15

aggressive 4:8

46:11

4:11

aggressor 4:10
agree 23:2
alien 38:23
ALITO 16:16
17:7,11 36:18
36:24

alleged 30:16
allow 11:3 24:15

allowing 36:3

amorphous 48:6

34:25

39:7,9

48:7,9

45:25

analysis 17:2

analyzing 18:1
Angeles 1:15,18
announcing

26:9

answer 8:19
14:1 36:5

answered 11:16
27:13 29:10,20
antecedent 29:5
antecedents
29:5,12,13

anyway 31:23
apparently 13:1
appeals 16:18

17:1,2,21
18:23

appearance

47:23

APPEARAN...

1:14

apples-and-or...

37:19

51

Alderson Reporting Company

5:4

applicable 40:24
application 3:19

31:14 34:3

applied 33:19,25

applies 23:21,23

45:8

42:22

apply 31:12

36:15 40:24
41:18 48:4,5
applying 42:7

44:23

approved 10:23
April 1:9
argued 41:2
arguing 27:23

27:25 28:1

argument 1:12

2:2,7 3:3,6
25:14 28:1
43:5 44:19
46:24

arguments

27:20

arises 44:6
arose 48:14
articulated 34:2

45:5

asked 35:22
asking 10:2

11:15 37:19
49:16 50:3
aspects 21:2
assault 19:23

20:3

assessment

association

28:18

44:14

assume 20:18,21

34:24 43:16
44:11

assumes 21:7
assuming 21:1,9
astonishingly

atheist 9:9
attacked 3:24
attempt 4:3
attempting

48:12

authorities
21:17,21

authority 28:4

automatically

48:20

25:4

available 9:22

18:20 19:10,24
Avie 3:25 36:20
aware 22:12
26:17 27:21

awful 18:11
a.m 1:13 3:2

B

back 13:15
34:14 36:2
41:11 44:21
49:23,24

balance 46:14
balances 37:22
barely 48:16
barred 45:20
based 17:8

35:18

basic 9:20
basically 3:23

18:25

basis 21:13
31:15 39:8
46:15 47:18

beat 18:16
beating 42:14
behalf 1:15,18

2:4,6,9 3:7
25:15 46:25
believe 5:18

23:18

benefit 18:19

46:2,5,6

benefits 18:21
benefitting 46:1

bet 42:10
better 17:18

18:7

beyond 40:14
big 31:5
Bill 28:21 29:1
blameworthin...

46:8

blow 30:5
board 23:21
boat 13:9
books 20:19
bore 11:20
bother 26:18
boundaries

11:11

boy 17:17
brand-new 50:4
Breyer 8:4,22
9:2,16,19,23
10:6,16,17
11:15,23 13:8
13:14,22 34:4
34:8 35:21
42:8,17,23
43:1

Breyer's 11:1
brief 24:7
briefs 3:14

40:12

bring 38:11
broad 37:19

48:5,24

broader 29:15
brought 7:10
36:21 40:12

Burkhardt 1:15

2:3,8 3:5,6,8
4:12,18,25 5:8
5:11,17,23
6:13,16,22
7:12,25 8:21
9:15,19 10:4
10:13,20 11:13
11:17,22 12:1
12:5,14,22,24
13:3,7,21 14:4

Official - Subject to Final Review

25:3,4,8 26:10
26:19,24 27:16
29:25 30:5,23
30:23 31:1,21
32:20 40:15
42:9 43:8,12
44:16 46:18
comes 24:14
27:22 42:9
44:11 45:16
coming 17:5

27:11

comment 37:23
commit 46:3
common 3:12,15
7:24 8:2,5 9:25
10:24 11:10,25
12:16 14:15,18
20:7,17 21:3
24:16,17,19
25:7,19 26:9
27:4 28:3,5,8
29:1,4 30:15
31:9 33:17
34:14,23 35:6
36:9,10,14
37:14 44:22
45:8,9,19,22
49:7

common-law

3:16 8:8,9 29:5
29:12,13,22
35:15,16 36:17
45:5,6

comparison 5:4
complaint 36:21
completely

34:23

14:6,9,13,16
14:21 15:5,10
15:19,22 16:1
16:4,7,12,24
17:10,12,20,25
18:10,22 19:3
19:13,20 20:1
20:12,15,17
21:6,12,20
22:4,19,21,25
23:7,13,17,23
24:16 25:12
46:22,24 47:1
49:24

buttressed 32:1

C
C 2:1 3:1
cabins 27:6
Cal 1:15,18
California 1:6

3:4,20 5:15 6:4
12:9,9 16:18
17:1 18:24
22:14 24:3
31:22,25 38:4
40:22 48:19,25
49:14

California's
3:14 22:6
call 39:22
Cambridge 8:25
Carlson 19:16
carried 49:9,10
case 3:4,19 6:3,5

6:7,9,10 7:20
8:1 9:5 11:4,18
12:18 13:16
14:19,22,23
15:11 16:14,17
17:14,24 18:3
20:13,19,22
21:2,8,14,15
25:4,5,7,23
28:4 29:9
30:11 33:13,16
33:22 34:1,16

36:17 37:10,12
40:19,24 41:8
42:7 43:6,19
43:22,25 44:6
45:12 46:12
47:24 50:2,8,9
cases 8:10 19:16
21:22 22:16,18
22:24 23:1,1
23:21,24 24:5
24:6 25:2,6,23
26:5,12,15,16
31:12 37:14
40:21 41:15
42:8,12 43:13
43:17,23 44:1
44:12,16 45:4
45:5,6,15,15
45:18,22

case-in-chief

4:14

categorical

47:10

caught 35:2,10
causation 22:8

22:10 40:4
46:17

cause 6:6 23:10
caused 23:5
24:25 25:1
39:13

causes 22:6
centuries 23:25
century 8:6,6

9:4

certain 47:16
certainly 7:17

27:6 35:5
39:18,21 40:1
43:12 44:10

challenged 19:4
chance 4:2,22
change 39:2
characterized

charged 40:25

37:13

41:9

charges 19:23

36:21

check 23:3,3
Chief 3:3,8

11:24 12:2,11
14:10,14,19
17:13,23 18:3
18:11,14 19:1
19:5 25:11,16
31:2 43:11,15
43:19 44:1,2,5
44:8,10,13
46:21 50:7

child 9:8
children 44:16
cite 22:25 48:20
cited 8:1 24:6,7

25:5,6 26:2
33:13

civil 22:24 23:21
claim 3:22 5:18
5:24 6:2 18:8
20:3 43:7

claims 6:4,17

47:8

class 37:21
Clause 3:11,17
9:12,14,17,20
10:22 11:8,20
13:6,25 31:23
33:19 34:25
35:11,14 41:19
47:15 49:18

clear 3:10
clearly 16:15
38:3 39:18
47:4

client 10:9 38:16
client's 49:15
closer 37:12
codifies 49:6
coincidence 6:3
come 4:15 5:2
5:25 6:1,11
10:11 11:3
13:19 15:4,14
21:23 22:9

condition 28:22
conduct 39:23

39:24 40:1
confined 21:3

31:18

conforms 11:7
confrontation
3:11,17 7:4,4
7:15 9:12,14
9:17,20 10:22
11:8,12,20
13:5,25 22:2
24:13,19,22
28:5,12,13
29:4,17 30:12
30:17,20,23,24
31:23 32:3
33:18 34:25
35:10,14 41:19
45:10 47:12,15
49:15,18

consciousness

considerations

conspiracy 41:9
Constitution

constitutional

constitutional...

29:14

7:19

8:18

28:22

32:6

contend 33:4
contest 6:24
context 11:12
contours 7:14
10:3,18,21
34:25

conceded 40:22
conceivably

contradict 32:9
contradictions

concept 3:16

39:23

30:12

concluded 16:20
concluding 17:8
conclusion 17:5
concocted 50:5

35:3

contrary 20:21
controlled 31:22
convicted 9:10
correct 12:5,22

13:7 17:7
19:20

52

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

correcting 25:18
counsel 19:5
35:23 46:21
50:7

course 5:8 7:2,3

14:21

court 1:1,12 3:9

3:10 9:21,22
10:1,4 16:12
16:18,18,25
17:1,2,21
18:23,24 20:9
21:13 25:17,22
32:1 38:12
40:22 41:6
48:10,17,22,24
49:2,6

courts 15:22

19:13,14

Court's 32:2

co-conspirator's

45:4

41:8

Crawford 3:10
10:4,14 11:16
13:8,12 14:2,5
14:6,13 21:4
28:13 31:6,18
35:14 36:3
47:4,9 48:13
48:14,16,22
50:5

created 3:20
48:25 49:14

credibility 6:19
crime 27:10
29:18 30:2
31:1 35:8
37:10 39:9,18
40:25 41:9,17
criminal 19:23
20:4 23:1,24
39:5,6 40:1,8
47:20,23

criminal/civil

43:2

criteria 29:24

30:22 45:14

cross 5:22
cross-examina...

4:3 5:7 6:15
27:2,4

cross-examine
4:3 7:1 8:15
9:17

D

D 3:1
damage 39:4

40:7

damaged 39:7
damaging 43:6
Davis 32:2 49:3

49:6

De 1:17 2:5

25:13,14,16
26:21 27:18,24
28:24 29:7,21
30:9,13 31:11
31:20,25 32:23
33:6,11,21,25
34:7 35:4,12
36:7,22 37:2,9
38:1,6,8,15
39:15,17,20
40:18 41:4,20
41:23 42:4,16
42:20,25 43:4
43:14,18,24
44:4,7,9,12,15

dead 31:3
death 12:4,4

15:2,24 22:12
23:6,10,13
24:11 26:18
27:21 29:14
42:12

decades 19:15
decide 36:11
decided 32:25

45:22

decision 32:2
declarant 7:22

12:21,21 23:18

26:17 27:17,21
39:16

declaration

11:25 12:6,6
12:12,20 21:22
22:1,9,17 23:5
23:9 24:5,20
26:6,8,10,16
26:24,25 27:6
27:9,15 28:10
29:15,24 30:2
30:3,5,19,25
45:14

declarations
27:7 30:7,11
32:8 45:12
deemed 15:6
deeply 10:24
defendant 3:19
6:6 14:7 20:20
20:24 22:6
24:9,25 26:11
26:12 27:5,9
27:15,16 28:2
28:6 29:23,25
29:25 30:18
32:3,14 33:14
37:24 39:10,13
41:17 43:21
44:19 45:17
46:1,10,19
47:19

defendants 3:18

49:19,20
defendant's
27:2 30:4
36:13 38:16
39:13 42:21
43:7

38:13,17

definitely 21:14
definition 7:14

20:23

deliberately
10:9 47:22

demands 47:20

53

Alderson Reporting Company

denied 33:14

40:9

departure 37:15
depend 28:17

44:20

depends 15:6
deprived 3:21

47:6,12

Deputy 1:17
derived 47:13
described 16:13
describing 30:4
description 37:3
designed 24:13

49:19,20

determination

40:17 41:7

determine 3:11

28:12 40:13
detract 27:8
devalued 45:10
dictated 45:4
die 12:21 42:15
difference 4:25

5:6 16:8

different 6:20
13:6 23:20
26:22 29:22
37:7

differently 33:5
difficult 13:15

21:25

diminish 5:20
direct 5:22
directed 49:5
discussing 38:9
discussion 38:2
dispositive

45:25

9:3

dissented 11:19
distinction

24:22 28:20
29:2 43:3
distribution

45:21

doctrine 35:17

35:17 49:7

domestic 43:13

43:23 44:1

DONALD 1:17

2:5 25:14
door 5:13,13
double 34:13
doubt 40:14
dozens 21:22

drawing 28:20

25:5

29:5,6

drive 10:17 31:5
dry 48:16
dunked 36:2
dunking 8:12
DWAYNE 1:3
dying 11:24 12:6

12:6,11,20
21:21 22:1,9
22:17 23:5,8
24:4,20 26:5,8
26:16,24,25
27:5,7,8,14
28:10 29:15,24
30:2,3,5,19,25
45:11,14

D.C 1:8
E

E 1:17 2:1,5 3:1

3:1 25:14
effect 47:25
effectively 48:7
either 8:11

element 23:8

33:24

45:25

26:23

elevating 39:24
eligible 9:24
embedded 10:24
embodied 3:17
emphasize 45:2
enacted 48:17

defense 7:5 38:2

disqualification

elements 12:7

Official - Subject to Final Review

ESQ 1:15,17 2:3

44:25

encroachment

49:19

engaged 17:2
England 8:25

English 21:17

11:3

21:21

enter 13:2
entirely 5:21
12:15 23:19
entitled 49:4
equitable 7:14
7:19,23 20:23
21:18 36:9
44:18 48:1

equities 46:13
equity 46:14

47:2

error 16:23,23

49:23,25

especially 14:21

34:12,15

2:5,8

essence 47:19
essentially 37:17

40:22 49:3

event 13:10 37:3

46:10

evidence 8:11
11:2 12:25
15:4 17:9 18:1
24:7,8 25:2,8
25:21 27:8
31:22 32:12,17
32:22 33:2
35:1,8 38:10
43:6,8 45:16
46:16 50:2
evidentiary

eviscerate 48:12

34:24

49:15

50:5

eviscerating

evolve 35:1
evolved 34:23

evolves 35:1
exactly 5:11
33:6 50:6
example 8:7
10:7 14:25
33:12 35:5
44:17

exception 7:9,11
7:23 10:21,23
11:6,11 24:15
32:13,14,17,18
32:18 33:18
34:15,17,19
37:19 38:21
41:19 47:16,17

exceptions
14:18 34:9
47:16,17

excluded 26:5

30:21 47:4

excusable 16:20
Excuse 19:5

exist 3:15,15

48:15,25
existed 3:12
12:7,8,10
21:24 23:25
24:3 48:22
49:7,13
exists 41:2
expanded 49:13
expansion 21:18
expansive 20:23

21:23

explain 26:14
explaining 26:5
exploitation

exploiting 46:9

46:9

46:12

explore 11:10
expose 47:7
extent 29:3

31:17 37:10
46:6

F
faced 35:6
fact 5:24 12:6
16:19 17:21
20:22 22:14
23:24 27:8
39:2 48:11
factor 17:5
factors 22:11
facts 9:24
factual 19:11,15
fair 3:21 47:13

47:13,25 49:16
49:20 50:3

fairly 31:9
fairness 48:8
falsity 47:7
familiarity

43:20

family 15:13
fanciful 8:7
far 36:24
fault 41:1,2
favor 42:18
Federal 19:14

19:15 32:12,17
32:21,23 33:7
33:12 41:6
49:3,11

fellow 35:23
felon 9:10
fight 27:20
figures 18:7
file 36:21
find 21:2,25
41:17 42:11
finding 13:15

17:20 18:4,25
19:8,11,15
40:16

finds 34:13
first 11:4 18:22

46:4 48:18

flexibility 35:25
follow 8:5 10:3
13:24 34:23
36:2

followed 11:2

48:19

following 7:8
foreclose 21:18

21:21

forfeit 32:3
forfeited 29:18
forfeits 32:5
forfeiture 3:14
3:20 7:15,18
11:11 12:14
20:23 21:18,24
24:12 31:14
33:13 35:17,17
38:21 40:23
43:10 48:23
49:4,7

forfeiture-by-...

forth 9:20 10:20

48:18

14:23

forward 49:9,10
found 18:23
foundational

41:6

four 46:22
fours 36:17
Framers 47:9,14
framing 3:13,16
frequently

44:11

friend 15:13,24

16:2 26:2
friends 18:6
fully 16:12
function 39:6
further 7:24,25

46:12 49:10
future 40:21

G

G 1:15 2:3,8 3:1

3:6 46:24
gang 43:17

44:12

general 7:7 12:8

20:25 24:1

generalized 48:5
Giles 1:3 3:4

40:22

Ginsburg 4:6,12
4:15,19 6:8,14
6:18,23 7:16
14:1,5,7,24
15:5,8,16,20
15:23 16:2,6,8
19:17,21 32:10
40:11 49:22
girlfriend 9:6
give 5:14,16
18:21 33:16

given 4:10 29:13
gives 30:15
giving 15:9
go 6:17,18 7:7

13:15 15:3
34:11,17 49:23
49:24

goes 7:24,25
23:8 42:6

going 4:22 5:14

5:16,18,19
16:9 17:18,24
18:6,7,8,8,16
18:17,18 20:4
21:8 36:2 38:2
40:13,15 47:19

good 19:22
34:12,15
gotten 9:25
govern 33:1
governing 35:15

35:16

grave 3:17
great 18:18
ground 45:13
grounds 19:22
guarantee 16:22
guess 13:18
42:18 45:1
guilt 40:14
guilty 8:13,15

41:17

54

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

H

half-true 39:11
hand 37:20
happen 40:19,20
happened 36:19

36:25 38:9
40:19 48:11
50:6

happens 26:25

42:2

harmless 16:23

49:23,25

harmless-error

17:2

hear 3:3
heard 14:11
hearing 41:6

42:5

hearsay 6:1 7:9
7:10,11 11:6
14:17 17:4
24:8,15,19,22
28:23 31:24
32:5,7,18,21
33:1 34:6,10
41:8

heart 36:3
highly 4:4 20:1
holding 21:4
hole 31:5
Honor 11:13
21:7 22:22
27:1 29:8
35:13 36:23
40:18 41:5

hundreds 22:15

hypothetical

49:8

21:6

I
idea 42:5
ignore 10:18
imminent 12:4
23:11,14,16
impeach 32:7
impending

22:12 24:11
26:17 27:21

importance 3:18
important 24:7

30:8

impression

25:19

inadmissible
14:17 45:13

inception 12:17
include 47:16
included 35:16
inconceivable

16:19 17:9
incorporate
8:18 9:11

independent

17:8

indicate 5:17

28:4 37:6

indicated 4:4
5:19 38:3,16
49:3

indicates 18:12
indication 20:3
indicted 19:23
inequitable

45:20

infliction 30:4
inform 29:16
informed 29:4
injustice 6:22
ink 48:16
inquired 38:12
inquiry 12:3
19:11 40:3
insight 30:15

instance 7:21

45:9

31:7

instances 22:2
23:24 45:16

insurance 45:21
integrity 39:5
intend 17:21

20:20

intended 42:24

42:24

intent 12:3,12

12:16,19 17:14
21:5 25:20
32:24 33:8,19
34:25 39:1,2,3
39:23 40:5
42:21 43:9
44:20 45:3,4,6
45:19 46:3,7
intentionally
20:8 47:22
interested 9:7

27:3

interpreted

32:24 33:4,5,8

introduce 6:5
invention 48:15
involve 16:14

31:10

involved 16:17

22:3 37:21

involving 8:10
irrelevant 5:24

27:22

isolated 31:7
issue 11:5,8

15:10,15 16:14
17:4 23:20
36:12 42:6
43:12 48:13

J

joined 13:8
judge 22:15

40:15

jumped 13:12
jurisdiction

32:25

jury 4:4 40:13

40:17 42:6

justice 3:3,9 4:6
4:12,15,19 5:5
5:9,12,20,23
6:8,10,14,18
6:23 7:2,8,13
7:16 8:4,22,24

9:2,13,16,19
9:23 10:6,15
10:16,17,25,25
11:14,15,18,23
11:24 12:2,11
12:19,23,25
13:4,8,9,12,14
13:22 14:1,5,7
14:10,14,19,24
15:5,8,16,20
15:23 16:2,6,8
16:16 17:7,11
17:13,23 18:3
18:11,14 19:1
19:5,17,21
20:6,13,16,18
21:10,16,25
22:17,20,23
23:2,4,11,15
23:19 24:12
25:11,16,25
26:21 27:12,19
28:19,25 29:9
29:10,11 30:6
30:10 31:2,17
31:21 32:10
33:3,9,16,23
34:4,5,8 35:9
35:21 36:18,24
37:5,18 38:4,7
38:14 39:12,16
39:19 40:8,11
41:1,10,22
42:1,8,17,23
43:1,11,15,19
44:1,2,5,8,10
44:13 46:21
47:21,23 49:22
50:7

justifiable 16:21
justified 45:7,8

K

Kansas 48:17
keep 20:20
keeping 25:21
34:9,12,16,20

39:8 46:15,16
Kennedy 5:12

5:20,23 7:2,13
10:15,25 20:18
21:10,16,25
22:23 23:2
24:12 30:6,10
31:17,21 37:5
37:18 38:4,7
38:14 39:12,16
39:19

Kennedy's

26:22

kept 24:8,9,10
kick 13:9
kill 4:1,5 17:18
17:22,22 18:6
18:7,16,17,23
19:9 41:12

killed 18:12 25:1

26:11 27:5,9
27:15 29:23
30:1 40:16
killer 45:11
killing 27:17
kills 28:3 45:17
kind 20:4 36:12

39:24 40:15
42:12

kinds 8:23 9:3
knew 18:5 26:7
knifepoint 3:25
know 8:8,14

17:5,13,24,25
20:13 23:7
24:1 30:18
31:10 33:6
36:5,9 42:10
42:11 43:5,17
44:2 47:5

knowledge 7:12

12:20

L

language 20:25
large 17:4
Laughter 8:20

55

Alderson Reporting Company

9:1 13:11

law 3:12,15 7:24

8:2,5 9:25
10:24 11:10,25
12:16 14:15,18
20:7,17 21:3
24:17,17,20
25:7,19 26:9
27:4 28:3,5,8
29:1,4 30:15
33:17 34:14,23
35:1,6 36:9,10
36:14 37:14
38:4 44:22
45:8,9,19,22
49:8

lawyer 22:15

38:16

leaving 13:10
led 35:23 37:3
left 15:1
legal 19:7
legitimate 4:9
letter 15:1,2,3
let's 8:22 13:16

20:18,18,21
29:12

level 46:8
lie 13:4
limitations

35:10

limited 34:2

43:16,22,24,25

line 11:1 15:16

19:16 29:6

lines 33:2
linked 38:12
litigation 20:11

20:14 23:22
live 9:21 40:9
logic 38:20
42:22 45:2
logical 35:2
long 7:10 40:1
look 3:12 10:5

18:9 30:11
36:2,15 38:19

Official - Subject to Final Review

38:20

looking 7:18
Lord 12:18

14:22

Los 1:15,17
lot 18:9,11 26:1

30:7 31:3,3

M

machine 28:15
maintained 36:4
making 19:14

22:5 28:1
40:17 46:11
man 9:6 15:25
40:12 42:14

manipulate

47:22

MARILYN 1:15
2:3,8 3:6 46:24

married 9:6

10:8,12 13:17
13:17

matter 1:11 10:1

32:25 50:10
maxim 35:18

36:8,15 38:20
38:24,24 45:7
45:23 48:3

mean 4:8 6:7 8:6

8:7 15:11,11
17:15 18:1
19:8 24:14
32:5,10 33:10
39:16 43:1
meaning 9:18

11:19,20

meaningful 6:24
means 18:15
meant 8:19

47:19 48:4,5
48:24 49:2
meet 24:10
member 15:13
mental 46:19
mere 22:9 30:24

39:20,21

met 29:24 30:22

mind 5:2 7:6,7

45:15

17:16

minutes 46:22
moment 13:5

29:13

moral 46:8
Morley 20:19,22

Morley's 12:18

21:2

14:22

mortal 30:4
Morton 21:4
motive 18:16
38:22 39:1

motive-to-tam...

38:22

mouth 38:11
murder 7:22
19:18,18,19
23:1 31:4,12
31:15 40:2
41:13

murdered 15:1
19:22,23 26:6
26:7 30:18
33:14 34:17
41:14

murderer 25:22

30:17 31:8
murderers

18:21

murdering
18:19 24:2

murders 22:18
22:19,21,25
31:10 32:4

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
NACDL 24:7
narrow 10:22
14:18 37:21
47:16

nasty 4:7
necessarily

16:24 32:4

necessary 17:6

46:8 47:24

need 8:13 22:7
24:4,15 26:23
needed 24:1,20

24:25

negligence

39:13,19,20,21

negligently

39:14

neither 17:1
never 4:2 6:25

7:21 9:25
11:10 19:3
21:15

nevertheless
28:8 42:4
45:15

new 3:20 49:13

49:25

Nicola 1:17 2:5

25:13,14,16
26:21 27:18,24
28:24 29:7,21
30:9,13 31:11
31:20,25 32:23
33:6,11,21,25
34:7 35:4,12
36:7,22 37:2,9
38:1,6,8,15
39:15,17,20
40:18 41:4,20
41:23 42:4,16
42:20,25 43:4
43:14,18,24
44:4,7,9,12,15
nonconfrontat...

noncriminal

28:9

39:23

nontestimonial
15:14 16:5,10
notice 5:14,16

37:24

notion 49:17
notions 48:8,9

56

Alderson Reporting Company

no-profit 44:20
number 31:19

numbers 42:10

48:19

42:11

O
O 2:1 3:1
oath 9:9,18
object 29:19
objection 32:21

46:11

obstacle 42:7
obvious 17:15
obviously 4:3
15:11 18:1

occasion 11:10

occurs 37:11

37:7

46:10

odd 34:13
officer 4:17,24
6:21,25 15:13
15:18

official 37:12
oh 17:17
okay 4:20,22 9:2

34:8 41:22
44:7

ones 10:18 22:25
one-sided 39:10
opened 15:2
opening 5:13
operated 24:18
operation 24:13
opinion 8:5
opinions 26:2
opponent 37:13

38:23 41:3
46:2

opportunity

6:24 7:1

oral 1:11 2:2 3:6

25:14

order 3:11 18:12

41:12,18

ordinary 34:6

Official - Subject to Final Review

34:10,19
overruling

48:10

P

P 3:1
PAGE 2:2
painted 4:8 6:19
painting 4:9
palpably 46:4
parameters

16:13 47:15
Pardon 22:20
part 17:14 18:15

44:19

particular 13:5

20:9 32:16
36:12

particularly

3:12,18 22:11

party 9:8
peculiarly 27:9
pedigree 41:24
people 11:21
17:17 29:14
31:10

perceived 46:7
perception

23:17

person 8:15 9:9
9:18,23 10:1
12:3 13:1 26:6
26:7 27:14
34:17 48:3

personal 46:14
pertinent 31:4
Petitioner 1:4
1:16 2:4,9 3:7
3:21,24 46:25
Petitioner's 47:2
picture 6:19
place 11:4 46:4
places 32:21
planning 4:5
play 39:24
please 3:9 21:10

21:10 25:17

plenty 50:2
point 13:24
15:11 22:5
35:24 40:21
points 11:1,9
police 4:17,17
4:23 6:21,24
15:12,18 36:19
36:21 37:6

policy 9:20 33:1

45:21

portray 6:21
possibly 48:24
post-Crawford

powerfully 12:8

48:14

23:23

practical 3:18
practically

32:20

precise 36:11,17
precisely 36:1
prejudice 40:8
prejudicial 4:4
preliminary

40:16,21 41:7

prerequisite

25:20

prescribed 47:9
present 3:21
5:18 28:20
presented 6:2

preserved 49:9
presupposed

7:20

17:3

pretty 31:5
prevent 12:16

17:14,22 18:13
18:24 19:10
33:19 36:2
40:6 41:12
preventing

32:15 47:23

pre-1789 20:19

20:25

principle 35:19

principles 34:24

36:1,9,11,16
44:22

prior 37:7,11

38:1

probably 15:14
problem 31:24

32:11 35:7
36:6 40:11
42:9

procedural

47:10

proceeding 20:2

20:5

process 28:14
procured 10:9
10:10 13:23
26:13 27:16
procurement
26:19 33:17

procures 32:14
proffering 38:23
profit 20:24
35:19 38:25
39:3 40:4,7
46:17 48:1,3
profiting 40:6

49:17

profits 49:18
proper 5:21 8:3

10:20

proposing 37:16
prosecuted

prosecution

41:18

27:14

prosecution's

4:13

prosecutor

27:25

prospect 41:14
protect 49:19
protections 32:6

32:7

proved 45:13
proves 45:25
provide 46:8

49:20

provisions 11:2
purpose 32:15

40:6 50:5

purposefully

34:11,18

purposes 7:23

put 4:22 25:25

24:21

38:11

puts 28:8
putting 34:14
38:3,17,17

p.m 50:9
Q

qualified 30:3
question 11:15
13:14 26:22
27:13 29:11,11
29:20 34:5
35:21,22,22,23
36:6 49:23,25

questioning

11:1

questions 25:10
quite 5:21 6:20

44:11

quotations 26:2
quote 17:3
R

R 3:1
rapidly 13:10
rare 41:15,21

42:1,2

rarely 41:16
rational 16:19
38:20 47:18
rationale 23:4
23:20 38:24

read 21:17
realistic 8:23
really 5:3 6:17

16:17 17:6
22:23 23:10
40:5 42:14

45:2

reason 7:3 34:4
34:8,12,13,16
34:19 47:5
reasonable
40:14 48:1
reasons 27:7
rebut 4:24
rebuttal 2:7 4:9
4:16 6:12 7:10
7:11 46:24

received 36:19
receiving 45:20
recognize 28:3,5

37:16

recognized 32:1
35:7,18 45:18

record 20:3

36:18,22,23,24
37:5

regard 20:9

30:19 46:19

regardless 13:19

42:21

regimes 28:22
rejected 48:10
relate 23:9 40:5
relevant 35:8
reliability 27:7
28:17 48:8,9

reliability-ass...

28:15

reliability-bas...

28:10,11

reliable 47:11
remainder 25:9
remaining 46:23
rendered 20:7,8
rendering 20:10
repeat 45:1
report 37:11
reported 18:5
representing

35:7

require 12:3,12

12:16 32:24
33:8 38:7,8

57

Alderson Reporting Company

Official - Subject to Final Review

36:23 37:5
showed 25:5
showing 24:4
shown 3:13 26:7
shows 8:14 12:7

23:25 25:7
36:24

side 46:15 47:2

47:2

significant

16:25

required 12:20

43:9 45:19
requirement

22:13 26:16,18
39:1,1 45:3,4,6
46:7

requirements

requires 38:4

24:11

47:21

reserve 25:9
resolve 36:12
resort 36:8
respect 28:6,25
30:14,16 31:13

Respondent

1:18 2:6 25:15

response 5:22
responsible 12:4

32:19

responsive 7:5
restrictions 11:9

28:9,11,11
results 44:24
resuscitate

48:12

retrial 50:1
retry 50:1,2
Reynolds 25:22

49:10

right 3:21 6:4,13
10:6,11 11:22
12:4,23,24
13:3,14,19
14:9 21:16
22:4 27:5 28:6
28:12,13 29:4
29:7,17,18
31:20 32:7,8,9
32:22 38:14
42:17 47:6,11
47:12 49:22,23

rights 27:2
28:21 29:2
30:17 32:3
45:10 49:15

ripen 20:4

river 18:18
Roberts 3:3

11:24 12:2,11
14:10,14,19
17:13,23 18:3
18:14 19:1,5
25:11 31:2
43:11,15,19
44:2,5,8,10,13
46:21 48:10,12
50:7

role 39:24
rooms 37:7
rule 3:14,20

5:15 7:4,9,11
7:15,15 8:3,8,9
8:17 10:3 11:2
11:6,25 12:7,8
12:9,9,12,14
12:15,20 13:24
16:9 19:16
20:7,23 21:1
21:13,19,24
22:1,2,9 23:5
24:1,3,12,14
24:17,19 25:20
25:24 26:9,9
26:20 27:6,23
27:24 28:1,16
29:15,16,22
30:3,8 31:5,14
31:22 32:5,23
33:7 34:1,2
35:15,16 36:11
38:21,22 39:25
40:2,6,23 41:2
41:16 42:7,18
42:22,22 44:2
44:20,20,22
45:2,6 47:10
48:18,23 49:4
49:11,12,13
rules 8:23 9:3
14:23 24:18
28:23 32:12,17
32:22

runs 39:14

S
S 2:1 3:1
satisfy 39:18
saying 10:16
15:24 17:17
19:6 35:12,13

says 4:20,21
6:25 15:3
29:12 33:9
37:13 46:2

Scalia 5:5,9 6:10

7:8 8:24 9:13
11:14,18 12:19
12:23,25 13:4
13:9,12 20:6
20:13,16 25:25
27:12,19 33:3
33:9,16,23
35:9 41:1,10
41:22 42:1
Scalia's 29:11
29:11 34:5
scared 15:24
scenario 37:13
scope 3:11 28:12
sealed 15:1
see 34:16 35:21
seeks 46:10
seen 7:21 45:11
self-defense

3:22 5:18,24
6:2 18:8 38:13
38:18 43:7

sense 10:7 18:11

19:8 21:24
24:11 48:6
49:17

separate 12:15

12:15 16:9
24:18 28:14

set 14:23
sets 9:20 10:20
share 6:15
shooting 16:20
show 6:6 22:7

22:10 24:20,25
25:6 36:18,22

58

Alderson Reporting Company

24:10 33:8
specifically

18:23 20:20
23:8,14 24:11
49:5

speculative 20:2
spousal 42:9
spouse 9:7 13:21

13:22 14:3,6

stand 4:7,20
standard 19:7
31:24 32:13
48:9,24 50:4
standing 40:13
start 25:18 26:4
state 1:17 4:21
5:1 7:6,7 8:1
19:3,14 25:6
40:9 46:19
47:1 48:6,11
49:20

stated 25:19,24
statement 3:23
4:2,10,13,19
4:23 6:20
15:12,14 16:15
17:3,4 18:2
22:8 23:9 28:7
28:17 29:23,24
34:11 36:25
37:4 39:8 41:8
46:18 47:3,4,7
47:8,11

statements 5:1,3

5:6,9 6:1,5
30:14 31:4,13
31:18,19 36:20
37:8,20

States 1:1,12
8:19 32:11
48:19

stead 39:10
STEVENS

22:17,20 23:4
23:11,15,19

stood 29:1
strong 28:4

similar 37:17
simply 21:8 28:2
29:18 31:18,22
32:2 43:22
47:3

single 8:1 25:7
situation 10:14

13:6,6 14:2
27:1 28:2 31:9
33:14 36:16
37:17 39:22
42:13 44:6
46:13 48:4

situations 31:3

35:6

six 48:17
slayer's 45:18
solely 5:1
Solicitor 1:17
somebody 9:10

somewhat 5:21

sorry 14:4 18:14

45:19

37:12

48:8

sort 10:13 19:8

19:11 38:2
48:7

sorts 23:21
sounds 10:14
SOUTER 28:19

28:25 29:9
special 45:14
specific 12:7
13:16 17:20
21:4,5 23:10

subject 5:6
submit 46:20

submitted 50:8

48:23

50:10

subscribed
36:10,10
subsequent

25:23

subset 34:10
substitute 39:10

48:7

substituted

28:15

succeeded 28:1
sufficient 22:10
suggest 49:2
suggested 6:10
22:16 26:22

suggesting 7:16

7:17 31:15
suggests 4:11
34:22 42:18
48:6

superfluous

22:13

38:25

21:1

superimposition

supports 8:2

suppose 8:7,8,9

13:16 14:25
21:8,13,16
31:2 39:12,19

supposed 8:4

9:11 10:3
29:16

supposition

21:11

Supreme 1:1,12

16:18 17:1
18:24 32:1
40:22 48:16

sure 27:12 37:22

43:2,15

surpassed 26:23
suspect 42:11

Official - Subject to Final Review

suspend 24:13
sweeping 20:22
system 18:20

40:8 47:20,23

T

T 2:1,1
tack 29:22
take 6:10 8:7
13:16 18:3
20:25 29:21
34:5,10 35:5
41:10 46:10

talk 29:12
talked 17:17
talking 5:13

7:13,19 15:23

tamper 25:20
32:24 38:22
39:23 40:5
43:9 44:21
tampering

10:23 37:13
47:17 49:5

tell 16:10
telling 26:4
template 40:20
tends 5:20
terms 37:2 46:9
test 47:6
testator 45:22
testify 5:15,16
5:19 9:4,25
10:1 14:8 16:3
17:19 19:24
37:25

testifying 17:15

32:16 33:20
38:17 41:13
testimonial 6:5
14:25 15:6,21
16:9,13,15
17:4 22:8 24:8
30:8,11,14
31:18 34:16
37:20

testimony 4:16

4:16,23 5:25
5:25 6:11 7:6
9:21 10:8,11
11:3,5 12:16
13:18 14:11
17:22 18:19,24
19:10 27:10
30:7 40:9,14
47:3

testing 47:10
Thank 3:8 25:11

46:21 50:7

theory 22:6,14

37:15 42:2
43:8,10

things 4:7,21
9:12 14:24

think 5:5,21 7:7
7:16 10:15,25
11:23 13:19
14:1,16 16:25
17:6 18:10
20:16 21:20
23:15 25:18,19
25:22 26:1,21
29:7 30:13,14
30:15 31:11,12
31:13,14,15
32:2 33:12,12
33:21,23 34:1
34:4,5,13 35:3
35:4,5,13,18
36:7,8 37:18
38:19,23 39:15
39:17,18,25
40:20,21 41:4
41:20,20 42:3
42:4,6,8,19,20
42:20 43:4,11
44:15,18,21,23
44:25 45:9,24
46:14

thinking 8:24
thought 13:13

20:6 22:23

threatened 3:25

4:1

thwart 47:22
time 3:13,15
18:17 22:24
24:23 25:9
28:20 29:1
35:16,16 42:3
47:21 49:1

today 13:25 21:1

27:3

told 37:6
totally 13:6

22:13 27:22
tougher 39:22
transport 44:21
treated 27:4
trial 5:14 17:15

19:18,19,25
20:9,21 26:13
32:16 34:11
37:6 38:1 39:5
39:6 40:13
41:13 46:12
47:13,20 49:16
49:21,25 50:4
50:4

trier 16:19
trigger 39:25
triggered 40:2
trouble 36:1
true 7:3,20,23

26:12 41:4
42:23 43:12
47:3,8

truth 5:2,3
truthfulness

truth-finding

13:1

39:6

try 18:20
trying 10:17
Tuesday 1:9
turn 47:13
two 24:18 28:21
typical 17:24

43:22

U

59

Alderson Reporting Company

ultimate 45:24

45:24

ultimately 45:13
unavailability
32:19 39:12
unavailable

7:22 14:20,22
20:8,10 32:8
36:13

undermine

49:14

undermined

43:7

understand 9:8

9:18 15:17
18:4 19:1,7
21:4 22:1
28:19 32:13
34:5 43:21

understanding

29:16

understood
47:15 49:8

unheard 41:24
uniform 26:18
uniformly 33:7
United 1:1,12

8:18

unpleasant 4:21
unusual 41:11
upset 17:16
usually 18:20

V

v 1:5
validation 27:1
vengeful 4:8
version 39:11
versus 3:4
viciously 3:24
victim 24:2,9

25:1,21 27:10
30:1,17,18
31:4,8,13 32:4
38:11 39:9,14
40:10 41:12
43:20 45:17

victim's 25:3

30:19

view 6:15 8:2
viewed 12:17
vindication 27:2
virtually 16:22

17:9

W

want 13:15 14:8

25:18 35:9
42:14 45:1,1
49:12,12

wanted 33:1

38:10

Washington 1:8
wasn't 8:9 9:24
11:16,25 14:3
27:13 29:2
48:5

water 8:12,14

8:16

way 6:11,14
12:17 25:2
30:24 33:4
34:2,21 41:6
43:22

ways 18:2
weaker 18:9
weeks 48:17
weighs 46:14
went 5:1 17:6
25:2 36:19
37:7

Weren't 17:8
We'll 3:3
wife 42:14
willing 35:24
witch 8:11,11
witches 8:10

36:3

witness 10:23

14:20,22 19:19
20:8,10,21
22:7,12 26:13
27:5,10 28:3
29:23 30:1,25

Official - Subject to Final Review

1400 13:18
17th 9:4
1750 13:18
1789 13:17
18th 8:6 9:4

2
2008 1:9
22 1:9
25 2:6

3

4

3 2:4

46 2:9

32:8,15 33:15
33:20 36:13
37:12 39:9
45:11 47:17
49:5

witnessed 30:2
witnesses 9:3,22

30:25 47:24
witness's 6:7

22:8 28:7
29:23 32:14,19
33:18

woman 6:20

10:7

38:11

words 26:1 29:3

work 34:20
world 13:2
worried 29:14
wouldn't 11:4
27:18,25 31:5
35:9 37:15
39:1 42:2
43:24,25 44:3

wrong 6:8,9
20:24 25:2
48:2,4

wrongdoing
35:20 36:13
38:25 39:4,7
39:25 40:25
46:2,3,4,9,11
46:16,17 48:23
49:4

X

x 1:2,7

Y

years 22:15 49:9

0

07-6053 1:5 3:4

1

11:02 1:13 3:2
12th 8:6
12:00 50:9

60

Alderson Reporting Company

