Official

1

       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
CARACO PHARMACEUTICAL             :
LABORATORIES, LTD., ET AL.,       :
            Petitioners           :  No. 10-844
       v.                         :
NOVO NORDISK A/S, ET AL.          :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Monday, December 5, 2011

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:05 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
JAMES F. HURST, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; for
   Petitioners.
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
   General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
   United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
   Petitioners.
MARK A. PERRY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
   Respondents.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

2

                     C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
JAMES F. HURST, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ.
   On behalf of the United States,                  16
   as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
MARK A. PERRY, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondents                     27
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
JAMES F. HURST, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioners                     55

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

3

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                      (10:05 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 10-844, Caraco Pharmaceutical
Laboratories v. Novo Nordisk.
            Mr. Hurst.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES F. HURST
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. HURST:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            Since 1984, whenever an -- a drug has
multiple FDA-approved uses, there has been a statutory
path for generic drugs to reach the market if there are
specific uses not covered by a patent.  Here, there is
no dispute that Novo's patent does not claim the use of
repaglinide when used alone, and that is "an approved
method" of using the drug.  Even though that matches the
statutory language exactly, Novo is arguing that in this
case, our counterclaim to correct their blocking use
code is thwarted by the fact that their patent does
claim a different approved use --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Is the first -- is the
first approved, the drug itself -- they're not
claiming that, because that patent has expired, isn't
it?

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

4

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. HURST:  That patent has long expired,
and they also had a patent using -- for the use of the
drug to treat diabetes through any method, and that
patent has long expired.  The only patent that's left
that Novo has is specifically limited to the use of
repaglinide in combination with metformin to treat
diabetes.  My client, Caraco, is attempting to get on
the market for admittedly noninfringing uses, which
occupy about 70 percent of the marketplace out there.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Suppose I said your brief
does not cite a Supreme Court decision.  Would that be a
correct statement?
            MR. HURST:  I believe that -- that -- if the
-- it depends on the context of the sentence, but I
think that would be a correct statement if I understand
the way you are asking the question.
            You are asking the question in a way that
suggests to me, by context, you're asking whether I cite
any Supreme Court precedent.  But the context here is a
little bit different, because the context here in the
counterclaim is a situation where drugs routinely have
multiple and different, distinct uses.  And in that
context --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, we have hundreds and
hundreds, probably thousands, of opinions, and you

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

5

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

didn't cite -- there were many of them that you didn't
cite.  You cited quite a few, but you didn't cite all of
them.
            MR. HURST:  That's true.  That's true.  But
when a judge -- when a judge says to me that, you know,
you're going to lose this case because you did not cite
an applicable precedent, I'm going to hear that to mean
I didn't cite a specific particular case.  There are
many ways to use the word "an" after the word "not"
where it clearly does not mean "any."  For instance:
"The prosecutor failed to get a conviction because she
did not prove an element of the offense."  "I got lost
on my way to the party because I failed to make a turn."
"My cake fell because I did not include an ingredient."
So, the context speaks volumes in terms of whether or
not "an" means "any" in any particular context.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But -- but the context
here, one would expect it to say, if it meant what you
say it meant a -- did not claim a use asserted by the
generic.
            MR. HURST:  Justice Scalia, there --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Not just "did not claim a
use."  And we have to fill in, that is "the use asserted
by the generic."  That's a strange thing to fill in.
            MR. HURST:  Well, Justice Scalia, I am not

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

6

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

quibbling with the fact that this could -- the statute
could have been written more elegantly.  My guess is
that almost every statute this Court is asked to
construe, there are different ways that it could have
been written to resolve the issue in question.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's not a matter of
elegance.  It's a matter of how I would have expected it
to be -- to be framed if it meant what you -- what you
say it means.  It's so easy to say "does not claim the
use asserted by the generic."  My goodness.  And that's
what you say it means.
            MR. HURST:  If -- and look at the context.
The statute does not ask the brand company to identify
an approved use that the patent does claim.  It puts the
burden on the ANDA applicant to come into court, file a
counterclaim, and identify an approved use that the
patent does not claim.  We've carried that burden twice
over.  There are two approved uses that the patent does
not claim.  Context --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  As I understand your
argument, you satisfy -- the ground for seeking deletion
or correction was satisfied even before Novo wrote the
new use code that you claim is overly broad.  When the
use code said simply the use of repaglinide with
metformin, the ground for seeking deletion or correction

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

7

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

was satisfied, wasn't it?
            MR. HURST:  Well, I mean -- the truth is the
patent -- yes, the answer to that question is yes.  But
I would have no reason to go into court to fix a use
code that's not blocking me.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  No, but that's another --
so, there are two oddities in the way you read the
statute.  And it may be Congress just did a bad job of
drafting.  But the first is the one we were discussing
before, and that's the second one, that -- your -- your
beef really is not that the patent does not include
every use.  Your beef is that the source -- the use code
is too broad.  And yet, that is not the ground that the
statute sets out for seeking deletion or correction.
            MR. HURST:  I believe it does, because it
talks about -- there's two remedies:  the deletion
remedy and the correction remedy.  As we read the
statute, we preserve distinct roles for the correction
remedy and the deletion remedy.  As Novo reads this
statute, they all but acknowledge that they are writing
the word "correct" out of the statute, because there is
no meaningful role for the correction remedy as Novo is
reading this statute.
            They call the correction remedy a -- a relic
of a failed bill.  And, in fact, they haven't identified

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

8

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

any meaningful role for the word "correct" in the
statute as they read this statute.
            Remember, what they say is there's two
pieces of information that qualify as patent
information:  expiration dates and patent numbers.
Nothing else.  The correction remedy can never reach an
expiration date under any circumstances.
            I haven't heard Novo to argue otherwise.
What they're saying is if a patent is correctly listed
in the Orange Book, this counterclaim is unavailable.
So, what does that mean?  If the brand company
incorrectly lists the expiration date for a properly
listed patent as 2150, this counterclaim is not
available to correct the expiration date.
            So, that leaves only one single piece of
information that could possibly be addressed by the
correction remedy.  And what does Novo say?  Patent
numbers.  They say, well, the correction remedy could be
available for fixing typos in a patent.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes, well, it's not much,
but it's something.
            (Laughter.)
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And -- and the way you're
talking, you seem to assume that all the problems in the
world have to be addressed by this statute.  Would you

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

9

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

have no remedy by -- by suing the FCC for accepting uses
that -- that it should not have accepted?
            MR. HURST:  I -- whether I do have
alternative remedies doesn't answer the question about
whether I have a remedy in -- for this particular
counterclaim.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's true, but it -- but
if you have alternative remedies, I am not terribly
shocked by the fact that you don't have a remedy under
this statute.
            MR. HURST:  I don't have any good remedies
under this statute.  I could not, Justice Scalia, sue
the FDA for accepting the use code, at least based on
existing law, because the FDA's position is that their
role with respect to patents is purely ministerial.
That has been upheld for about a decade now, including
multiple courts of appeals, the Federal Circuit, and the
D.C. Circuit.  So, my ability to sue the FDA for
accepting Novo's incorrect use code is not really a true
alternative remedy.
            The remedy that Congress gave me, that I --
that we think Congress gave us is an enormously
efficient remedy.  We filed our counterclaim, and within
3-1/2 months, we got an injunction asking Novo to
correct its use code.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

10

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE ALITO:  Suppose you didn't
file the -- suppose the counterclaim provision wasn't
available, and Novo -- you filed a paragraph IV
certification, and Novo sues you for infringement.
Could you not defend the infringement action on the
ground that your use of the -- of the drug was not in --
did not infringe their patent?
            MR. HURST:  I could not.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Why -- why is that?
            MR. HURST:  Because there's two paths that
are available under the FDA to get -- for a generic to
get approval.  One is section (viii), and if I proceed
under section (viii), I can carve out the patented use
from my label.  If -- and Your Honor's question assumed
I went through the other route, paragraph IV.  I am
not -- FDA does not allow you to carve out any portion
of your label if you are proceeding under paragraph IV.
So, the circumstance that you just described, I would --
I would be infringing under paragraph IV, and the only
way for me to get on the market is to invalidate the
patent.
            Now, think about what that means.  Novo is
forcing us, essentially, to infringe.  We don't want to
infringe.  We are trying to carve out our label so that
we can proceed under section (viii).  They have blocked

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

11

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

our ability to use section (viii).  So, they force us
into paragraph IV, force us to infringe.  And what
happens if we fail to invalidate the patent?  We are
kept off the market until 2018 for admittedly
noninfringing uses of the drug.  There are two
admittedly noninfringing uses of the drug.  That's where
we want -- that's what we want to use to get to the
market.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. Hurst, would you agree
that Congress did not contemplate this situation?  As I
understand it, it wasn't until 2003 that the FDA allowed
companies to write their own use codes, and that's what
creates this problem.  So, would you agree that the
Congress that passed this Act really couldn't have had
this situation in mind?
            MR. HURST:  I wouldn't agree, because look
at the timing.  The FDA issued the regulation entitled
"Submission of Patent" -- "Submission of Patent
Information" in June of 2003.  Congress enacted this
counterclaim using the same language in December of
2003.  The submission of patent information regulation
by the FDA with respect to method-of-use patents, and
that's what we're talking about here, is all about
ensuring that the use code itself is accurate and
correct and matches up with the patent.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

12

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            So, I think this is something that Congress
clearly had in mind, because they -- you have to assume
that they knew about the regulation enacted by the
agency that was administering this statute, issued just
months before they enacted the counterclaim using the
same -- the same --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  But what about the fact
that the FDA, and not the patent holders, were drafting
the use codes at the time this legislation passed?
            MR. HURST:  Justice Ginsburg, that is
incorrect; your timing is incorrect.  Prior to June of
2003, the FDA was authoring the use codes based on
information from the brand companies; but after June of
2003, the brand companies were authoring the use codes,
and the statute was enacted after June of 2003.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  So, you're suggesting the --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  When the FDA was writing
the codes, was -- was it writing about the scope of the
patent or was it writing about labeling?
            MR. HURST:  It was writing about the scope
of the patent.  The use codes have always been about the
scope of the method-of-use patent; it has never been
about anything other than the scope of the method-of-use
patents.  The only --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  I mean, we can ask the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

13

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Government, but why did it think that it lacked the
expertise, because it didn't want to opine under the
patent laws?
            MR. HURST:  I think the short answer is yes;
the FDA has always done their very best to not get
anywhere near the patents.  They don't do patents,
essentially.  And so, they decided -- and there was a --
there was a notice and rule -- I mean -- I'm sorry -- a
notice-and-comment rulemaking about this, and eventually
decided to make -- to have the brands submit the use
codes.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Would it suffice in the
description just to give a cross-reference to the
patent, to say the use of this drug is described in
patent claim number 43?
            MR. HURST:  It -- it would not be
sufficient, because the way -- the whole purpose of the
use code is to administer section (viii).  So, what the
FDA does is they take the use code, and they match it up
with the label, and then the generic gets to carve out
whatever the brand company says is patented via the use
code.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel --
            MR. HURST:  But if I could get back to a
question, Justice Scalia, that you asked about the --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

14

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

whether correcting typos in patent numbers is a real
role for the correction remedy.  I would submit it is
not.  And for all practical purposes, Novo is asking you
to eliminate the correction remedy from this statute,
and here's why.  Think about what they're saying.
            Novo is saying that the brand company
decides to put the patent in the Orange Book, but
somebody transposes two numbers.  There's a -- there's a
mistake that's made.  What does that mean in concrete
terms?  Well, if you transpose the two numbers, the odds
are astronomically high that the brand company is citing
a patent that they don't own and that certainly doesn't
relate to the drug in question.  It might relate to tire
treads; who knows?
            But you do not -- Congress did not enact a
Federal cause of action to address typos in patents.
The brand company has every incentive in the world --
and the generic company has no incentive to file a
lawsuit to fix that.  But the brand company has every
incentive in the world to ensure that they don't make
such mistakes, because there is a statutory benefit to
properly listing patents.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, it's -- it's -- the
issue is not whether Congress enacted it only for that.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

15

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

The issue is whether Congress enacted it for that in
addition to a lot of other stuff.
            MR. HURST:  But --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, it's a very small
detail, you know -- "correct."  You're saying this one
word, "correct," in this immense bill with all sorts of
causes of actions and other provisions here and there --
that one word has this -- this minimal meaning.
            MR. HURST:  You have --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's conceivable.
            MR. HURST:  You have to give it some
meaning.  You have to give it some practical meaning.
And right now -- and it's only -- the counterclaim has
only two remedies.  So, Novo is arguing that the first
of the two remedies is practically nonexistent.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel --
            MR. HURST:  There is no role -- I'm sorry.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm sorry.  Finish
answering.
            MR. HURST:  There is -- there is no role
whatsoever.  It is surplusage by any definition to -- to
say that "correct" -- "correct" is surplusage by any
meaningful definition.  If you even put a dose of
realism to this, "correct" has no role under Novo's
reading, while we preserve distinct roles for both the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

16

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

correction and the deletion remedy.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'll wait for your
rebuttal.
            MR. HURST:  Thank you.  I'm sorry, Justice.
Sotomayor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Horwich.
          ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. HORWICH
             ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
      AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS
            MR. HORWICH:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            I'd like to pick up with Justice Kennedy's
question about FDA and writing use codes.  The first
thing I'd point out is that before 2003, although FDA
wrote the actual text that went in the Orange Book, it
was relying on information submitted on a sort of
free-form declaration by the -- by the brand.  So, the
brand was still kind of -- excuse me -- calling the
shots in that -- in that respect.
            But the -- but the more important point is
that FDA doesn't have the resources or expertise or --
and to engage in the substantive patent evaluations
that, that would be required under a theory where you
would go sue the FDA if you had a problem with this.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

17

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

But more to the point --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Horwich, do we -- do
we know what FDA's position is in this case?  Is the
position you're presenting the position of the FDA?
            MR. HORWICH:  We -- yes.  We represent the
United States here; and so, we -- we speak -- we speak
for FDA and the other agencies of the government who are
very concerned here about the competition law effects of
this.  I mean, that's -- that's in some ways the bigger
story here.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, Mr. Horwich, what does
that mean exactly, that you represent?  I mean, this
might be a case where we would give the agency
deference, except the agency's name doesn't appear on
the brief.  So, should we give you any deference?
            MR. HORWICH:  Well, the -- the names on the
briefs I think should not be a guide to the deference
question.  But we're not really claiming deference in
the sense -- because what we're construing here, or what
the Court is construing here, is the counterclaim
provision, which is a Federal cause of action.  And so,
the Adams Fruit decision of this Court would say that
agencies don't get deference in defining the terms of a
Federal cause of action.
            And we do think that -- we do think that

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

18

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

it's important to recognize that Congress and the agency
were engaged in a dialogue in 2003.  And although I
wouldn't label that deference, I would -- I would
probably characterize it more accurately as Congress
building upon what FDA had done in constructing its
patent information regulation and Congress saying we
need a means to -- to protect the integrity of the
system FDA has set up.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Just one more question on
how this works.  Why does the FDA rely on use codes in
the Orange Book to make the carve-outs if it doesn't do
anything to ensure the accuracy of the code?
            MR. HORWICH:  Well, the statute -- well, let
me start with the basic that the statute envisions that
there will be carve-outs.  That's the whole principle
behind section (viii).
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Yes.
            MR. HORWICH:  And so, FDA says, well, we
need to know when a generic has made a valid carve-out.
And FDA says -- and FDA goes through this in the 2003
rulemaking -- if you read through the preamble, there's
more detail.  But the short of it is FDA has three
choices.
            It could rely on the generics to say that
they've carved out, but that doesn't really work because

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

19

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the generics could say something and then get on the
market when they hadn't properly carved out, and that
kind of defeats the whole point of Hatch-Waxman's
principle of getting patent issues resolved before
regulatory approval.
            FDA could, as the second alternative, try to
evaluate patents itself.  But nowhere else in the
statute is FDA given any role in the substantive
evaluation of patents, and with good reason.  This Court
has said in its Markman decision that claim construction
of patents is a question of law.  The actors in our
system that decide what patents mean are courts and
ultimately this Court; it's not FDA.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  If a patent holder --
            MR. HORWICH:  So, the third choice --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  If a patent holder writes a
use code that is ridiculously, totally, unreasonably
broad, is there anything that FDA can do about that?
            MR. HORWICH:  Well, I think the problem,
Justice Alito, is that from FDA's point of view, it's a
very slippery slope, because as soon as FDA starts
undertaking criticism of a use code, its effective --
the only basis for criticizing it is looking at the
patent.  Now, this may be a very easy case, but the
Court shouldn't be fooled that all cases are going to be

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

20

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

easy.  And if FDA here were to go in and said, well,
this doesn't look like it's the same as the claim of the
patent, in the next case, where it's a more difficult
question, where there may be some very good faith
dispute between the parties about the very meaning of
the patent, FDA is going to have to make a decision one
way or the other --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, what about after --
            MR. HORWICH:  -- and it's going to get sued.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  What about after there has
been litigation and a court has decided that a use code
that was written in a particular case was totally
unreasonable?  Does that -- does that mean that the
writing of that was in violation of some provision of
the -- of the Food and Drug Act or FDA regulations and
that there would be some sanction against the company
that did that?
            MR. HORWICH:  Well, I think the -- I think
the only posture in which a court would actually look at
a use code and evaluate it is under the counterclaim.
There's -- the court would not be looking at a use code
under traditional paragraph IV litigation --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What about --
            MR. HORWICH:  -- and so, the author of the
majority opinion below was kind of mistaken in that

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

21

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

regard.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  What about an APA
action against the FDA for relying on the use code?
Couldn't that be challenged as arbitrary and capricious?
            MR. HORWICH:  Well, it seems to me that --
that that challenge would fail because FDA has made a
reasonable construction of the statute, that its role is
ministerial.  It does not engage in substantive
evaluation of patents because the statute doesn't
envision that.  So, FDA would win that suit.
            On the other hand, if in -- going back to my
answer to Justice Kennedy, if we're talking about kind
of the second scenario where FDA does engage in
substantive patent review, yes, FDA could get sued.  But
the problem with that is that FDA is going to get sued
in an APA suit; the real parties in interest are going
to be the generic and the brand.  FDA is not going to be
owed any deference because it's going to turn on a
matter of claim construction, which is a question of
law.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  So -- so, how do -- how do
you describe what the FDA does as your third --
            MR. HORWICH:  So, what FDA does do is it
accepts the submission from the brand describing its --
describing its use code.  And FDA says in its 2003

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

22

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

rulemaking we're trying to do the best we can through
the administrative process to get good information in
the first instance.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  And it's your understanding
that you require companies to state the scope of the
patent in the use code, or might you think it's
perfectly permissible for a company to write its use
code in terms of indications?
            MR. HORWICH:  It's certainly possible in a
particular case that the indications will be
appropriate.  This is -- what we are asking for in the
use code is something that's good enough to do the job
that the use code is intended for, which is to inform
FDA --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Except that --
            MR. HORWICH:  -- what needs to be carved
out.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Except, counsel --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  So, that -- I'm sorry.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I'm sorry.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Go ahead.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Justice Sotomayor.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Except the FDA tells
parties not to rely on the orange code.
            MR. HORWICH:  Well, it tells parties --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

23

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  It tells them that what
controls is the patent.
            MR. HORWICH:  Well, that is true that FDA
said that parties should, of course, look at the patent.
But what FDA said in the 2003 rulemaking is that it
would rely on the use code.
            Let me also point out --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Could I ask -- could I
ask you --
            MR. HORWICH:  I'm sorry.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- just on a practical
basis -- I understand that the Petitioner has filed an
amended label in 2010.  I presume that that amended
label copies the current label with the exception of
substituting the manufacturer.
            MR. HORWICH:  The -- the labeling -- I can't
speak to what the labeling in the application is right
now, because it's confidential.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But let's assume that's
what --
            MR. HORWICH:  But if we assume for the sake
of argument that it's the same, yes.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Now, it claims that when
the paragraph IV -- the paragraph IV action is started
and it's sued for infringement, that it's automatically

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

24

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

going to lose --
            MR. HORWICH:  Well, that's right.  And, in
fact --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- because --
            MR. HORWICH:  In fact, Caraco has stipulated
to that.  That's at joint appendix 177 --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  All right.  Could you
explain to me --
            MR. HORWICH:  Because it includes the
metformin use.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Could you explain to me
why?  Is merely the use of a label that's identical
infringement or is it an infringement of the underlying
patent?
            MR. HORWICH:  It would be inducement of
infringement to sell a product with labeling that
suggests that the product be used for a patented method
of use.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Okay.  So, tell us how a
court gets out of the quandary of there being a claim
that is stipulated to -- I've infringed -- and then how
does it deal with the counterclaim?  Now, the district
court just ignored --
            MR. HORWICH:  Well, the --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- the act of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

25

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

infringement below and went straight to the
counterclaim.  But I'm not quite sure how you get out of
the quandary that this creates for the courts and the
parties.
            MR. HORWICH:  The counterclaim is designed
precisely to get out of the quandary, because what it
says is the paragraph IV litigation here, the choice
between infringement and noninfringement, is a false
choice, because if the counterclaim prevails and the use
code changes, the paragraph IV litigation is going to go
away because Caraco is going to want to go proceed
through section (viii).  It's going to be able to carve
out --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  All right.  How about --
            MR. HORWICH:  -- and get approval that way
without a judgment in the paragraph IV litigation.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Let's assume that Caraco
puts in a label like the one it wants to use under claim
4.  Will the FDA just kick it out?
            MR. HORWICH:  Yes.  It's not --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  It will not even --
            MR. HORWICH:  It's not permissible.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  It will not even ask for
a response from Novo?
            MR. HORWICH:  FDA will not permit -- does

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

26

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

not permit -- will not approve the application where a
-- where there's carve-out labeling combined with a
section -- with a paragraph IV.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But is that before --
without an infringement action by Novo?
            MR. HORWICH:  I'm not -- I'm not sure of the
timing.  Of course, it's possible that -- I mean, the
paragraph IV litigation is somewhat in the control of
the parties; so, it's not as if FDA sends out the
notices that could trigger the litigation.  But there --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, if you tell me
that the FDA --
            MR. HORWICH:  There might not be a -- there
might be --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  If you tell me the FDA
doesn't want to get involved in construing the patent,
why is it kicking out the claim for -- claim until Novo
does a suit on whether or not the generic is infringing
or not and let that issue be decided below?
            MR. HORWICH:  From FDA's point of view, it's
not a sufficient application if there's carve-out
labeling presented with a paragraph IV certification.
And I'd also say this, to take a step back:  The fact
that there might be conceivably alternative remedies
under some other construction of the operation of the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

27

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

statute shouldn't make you think the counterclaim isn't
available here.  After all, the situation that Novo
agrees --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Finish your
statement.
            MR. HORWICH:  Thank you.
            -- the situation Novo agrees is covered by
the counterclaim, where the patent doesn't belong in the
Orange Book at all, is one that can be remedied at some
-- at some expense and delay through paragraph IV
litigation by proving noninfringement if the patent's
irrelevant.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Perry.
             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK A. PERRY
              ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
            MR. PERRY:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            I think the last half-hour has made clear
that what really is at issue here is a challenge to
FDA's administration of the Orange Book.  That is an APA
challenge, not this counterclaim.
            Justice Kennedy, you asked if when FDA was
writing the -- the use codes, did it describe the scope
of the patent?  And Mr. Hurst said yes.  That's false.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

28

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

The answer is no.  For example, if I could point to the
joint appendix at page 522, these are some FDA-authored
use codes.  Everything before U-530 is an FDA-authored
use code.  U-275 --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Oh, I'm sorry.  What
page were you again?
            MR. PERRY:  Page 522, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thanks.
            MR. PERRY:  U-275, "Method of use of the
drug substance."  U-278, "Method of use of the
indication of the drug product."  U-279, "Method of use
of the approved product."  These were the ones that the
FDA wrote when it was responsible for writing use codes
to put the world on notice.
            So, U-278, method of use of an indication of
the drug product -- the patent relates to secondary
hyperparathyroidism, but you will never know that from
the use codes, and -- and that's when FDA was writing
it.
            In 2003, FDA decided to turn it over to the
industry.  And it said in this rulemaking -- you've
heard a little bit about the rulemaking but not what FDA
actually said.  It said to this:  "We believe" -- and
I'm quoting by the way from page 19a of the reply brief.
This is 68 Federal Register page 36,682.  "We believe an

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

29

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

approach that requires the NDA applicant or holder or
patent owner to identify the approved methods of use
protected by the patent is most consistent with the
general balance adopted in" the Hatch-Waxman Act.  And
then the generic industry, during this very rulemaking,
made all of the arguments that Mr. Hurst has made today,
said we should have more of a challenge, we should have
litigation and so forth.  And the FDA said no, that's
not right, because that would let the generics pick it.
            And we said -- they said we shouldn't do
that.  And this is important.  This is on page 24a of
the reply brief.  The FDA said very clearly, "There
would be repeated litigation over individual patent
listing decisions."  That's a bad idea, the FDA said,
because there is no assurance that ANDAs would be
approved sooner or generic drugs would enter the market
any more rapidly.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But the alternative
is that the FDA is going to have to hire an awful lot of
patent lawyers to review the -- the use codes and their
correspondence to the actual patents.
            MR. PERRY:  There are several alternatives,
Your Honor.  First, the FDA could de-link the
indications from use codes.  Right now the regulations
say that you can base your use code on the indication.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

30

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Our use code is identical to our indication, applies
with every regulation.
            You didn't hear Mr. Horwich say that FDA
thinks our use code is wrong.  FDA has accepted our use
code.  Caraco filed an administrative challenge to the
use code arguing that it was arbitrary and capricious.
FDA rejected the administrative challenge.  And they
didn't go to the D.C. Circuit to say that was arbitrary
or capricious under the APA.  I mean, that's the way
agency action gets challenged in the ordinary course as
this Court has seen many times.  Not here.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, that's the way
agency action gets challenged when it's substantive
action.  The FDA's position -- the United States'
position is that this is purely ministerial act.
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, they have chosen to
make it a ministerial act, which is not a negative, by
the way.  It is the Federal Drug -- Food and Drug
Administration.  What they do is administer this
program.  And they have in other areas, such as patent
term extensions, entered into memorandums of
understanding with PTO where there are patent issues so
that there is interagency cooperation to deal with
patent issues.  They could do that here, but they've
chosen not to and, in the exercise of their enforcement

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

31

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

discretion, said we are going to accept the NDA
applicant's submission.
            And, more importantly, FDA has made the
policy decision to tie the section (viii) determination
to the use code.  They don't have to do that.  That's
not in the statute.  They could change that by
rulemaking.  And, third, on the indication, for example,
Novo's use code always follows the indication.  The
change in this case was because FDA changed the
indication.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  What odds would you
put --
            MR. PERRY:  I'm sorry?
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  What odds would you put
as a betting lawyer on them winning a challenge to the
FDA policy decisions of what it's capable of doing and
not doing?
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, there have been
about a dozen APA challenges to various aspects of this
administration in the D.C. Circuit over the past 10
years.  The generics have won several of them including
most importantly the Purepac case, which we cite in our
brief, which is a direct challenge to FDA's refusal of a
section (viii) carve-out because of the use code.  And
the generic won that argument.  It said it was arbitrary

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

32

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

and capricious for the agency to do what it did.  So --
look, every APA battle is an uphill battle.  They're the
plaintiff.  They have burden -- the burden of proof.  It
is an available remedy.  You couple that, Your Honors,
with the --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What you -- what you
described sounded very much like this case.  So, if the
-- what was the D.C. Circuit case?  If -- if the D.C.
Circuit said it's arbitrary and capricious not to -- to
just accept the -- the brand's use code --
            MR. PERRY:  In Purepac, Your Honor, the
brand changed its position but the FDA did not change
its position accordingly, and that was the arbitrariness
there.  Here, the -- the brand changed its position, and
the FDA went along.  So, I -- I don't think they would
win that case, to be clear, in our particular facts.
That's because Novo has done nothing wrong.  I mean,
you've heard about -- a lot about over breadth,
misleading, blah, blah, blah.  There is nothing wrong
with Novo's use code if the agency agrees with that.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Can I bring you back for a
minute, please, to the statute?  And if you -- it's in
page 3 of the blue brief.  And in just reading it, I
might be missing something which you will point out to
me, I'm sure.  But if you get the statute at the bottom

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

33

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

of the page, it says, as I -- if you've got it there,
right?
            MR. PERRY:  Yes, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  It says, "If the
[NDA] holder" -- now that's -- that's Novo -- "holder of
the approval" -- "the approval holder for the drug,
a" -- I'm skipping words -- "a use of which is claimed
by the patent" -- and that's what you are doing.  And
what is that use?  Well, I look at page 12, and the use
is "a method for improving glycemic control in adults
with type 2 diabetes mellitus."
            So, that's the use that you're -- that's the
use that's claimed by the patent.  If you bring "a
patent infringement action against the [ANDA] applicant"
-- that's them -- "the [ANDA] applicant may assert a
counterclaim" -- which they want to do -- "seeking an
order requiring the holder to correct...the patent
information on the ground that the patent does not
claim...an approved method of using the drug."
            So, I look at that with those words -- I've
skipped words.  I look at those words, and I say that's
what they're saying.  They're saying the use that --
that your patent does not cover a portion of the set of
things described by your use.  And, therefore, they
would like to correct the description so that the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

34

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

description no longer covers something that you do not
have -- a use that you do not have a patent on.
            Now, that would seem to me to fit within
those literal words.  And, of course, the purpose is
what we've been arguing about.  But just looking at the
literal words, why doesn't it fit?
            MR. PERRY:  Justice Breyer, your question
conflated, as Caraco often does, the use and the
indication.  You quoted the indication, that is, a
method of -- of improving glycemic control.  The use is
repaglinide combined with metformin.  They are disclosed
in different parts of the label.  The indication is
under indications, and the use is under dosage and
administration.  That's the way FDA has always
administered this, and that's the distinction between
indication and method of use, which is why the
regulations and the form are written in the alternative.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  In other words, you're
saying that the -- this -- a method for improving
glycemic control in adults with type II diabetes
mellitus is not patent information.
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, that is the
indication that's --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I know, but are you saying
it is patent information?

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

35

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. PERRY:  It is not patent information
submitted under (b) or (c) of section 505, which is the
statutory language.  It is information submitted under
314.53(p)and (e) of the regulation, which is a different
question.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Was not the regulation
issued under this statutory section?
            MR. PERRY:  No, Your Honor.  The regulation
was issued under section 701, the general rulemaking
authority.  They cite section 505, but there was a
subsequent rulemaking when Pharma, the trade association
for the -- for the branded industry, challenged FDA's
authority to require all of this information.  And in
2007 rulemaking that my friends on this side never cite,
FDA came back and explained that our -- that the patent
submission reg is based on section 701 to facilitate the
section (viii) and ANDA process, not -- not an
interpretation of section 505.  And there are lots and
lots of interpretations of the statute.  Drug --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Can you give us of the cite
of that, please?
            MR. PERRY:  I'm sorry.  The 2007 rulemaking
is --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You don't have to do it
now.  Just -- just file it with the Court.  I don't want

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

36

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

to eat your time up.
            MR. PERRY:  You Honor, it's cited in our
brief, and my colleague will hand up to you momentarily.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Oh, it's cited in your
principal brief?
            MR. PERRY:  In the red brief, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Yes.  Don't waste your
time.  Go ahead.
            MR. PERRY:  Justice Breyer --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I don't really care.
            (Laughter.)
            MR. PERRY:  To further answer your
question -- I do.
            (Laughter.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Maybe your colleague
can find it --
            MR. PERRY:  Yes.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  -- before your time
is finished.
            MR. PERRY:  Justice Breyer, there is another
point on the structure of the statute.  If you look at
the -- at the chart in the back of our red brief where
we tried to lay out the various provisions of the actual
statute, the counterclaim that the Court read and that
we're focused on talks about "a" use.  In the preamble,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

37

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

it says, "If the patentholder claims a use" --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  You know, I know that
argument.
            MR. PERRY:  Right.  So --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  You don't need that
argument.
            MR. PERRY:  Well, "a" use --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  If you're right that patent
information in this particular provision does not have
anything to do with, or at least does not cover, the
words about diabetes I just read, well, then I guess
this section would have nothing to do with it because
those are the words they want corrected, aren't they?
            MR. PERRY:  That's correct, Your Honor, but
there's a second --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Mr. Perry, so, in your view,
patent information is just the patent number and the
expiration date, and that's all?
            MR. PERRY:  The patent information submitted
under (b) and (c) of section 505, correct, Your Honor.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Is that just the patent
number and the expiration date?
            MR. PERRY:  That's right.  And we know that
because the Congress at the same time debated a -- an
alternative bill that was sponsored by the Democrats

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

38

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

that had lots and lots of additional patent information.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Well, why would anybody have
created this counterclaim to fix the patent number and
the expiration date when that can be done by way of a
defense to a patent claim?
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, it's important to
remember the counterclaim is only a delisting provision.
It was -- it is a very narrow provision.  The FTC report
that's cited in the briefs identified eight cases in the
first 18 years of Hatch-Waxman that raised this problem
of improper listing, mostly due to successive 30-month
stays.  That was fixed in the counterclaim, and the
30-month stays were fixed, and there has never been a
case since -- since 2003, there has never been --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  What was fixed?  I missed
what you said.  What was fixed in the counterclaim?
            MR. PERRY:  The counterclaim addressed the
problem of improper listing that was addressed in the
FTC report.  The purpose of the counterclaim, according
to its sponsors, according to the conference report, the
listing of improper patents -- that problem has gone
away.  There is no such problem anymore.  It has never
come up again.  The counterclaim was entirely successful
in solving the problem that Congress set out to address.
It had nothing to do with use codes.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

39

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  What do you mean by the
problem of improper listing?
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, what the FTC report
explained was that certain branded companies near the
expiration of the listed patent would come in and file a
second patent in the Orange Book, even though it was not
properly listed, it didn't fit within section 505(b) in
the listing requirements, solely for the purpose of
getting a second 30-month stay, essentially to box out
the generic companies; and that that was an
anticompetitive action.  They recommended the
counterclaim to fix that.
            And at the same time, the FTC said if
Congress were to enact such a counterclaim, it is
unclear how frequently it ever would be used.  So, this
was always intended to be a very narrow -- it's not a
fix-all remedy.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  And so, your argument, Mr.
Perry, is not just that the word "correct" does no work.
Your argument is that the entire provision no long does
any work?
            MR. PERRY:  No, Your Honor.  My -- my
argument is very simple.  A delisting question -- it's
an on/off switch.  Either the patent is properly listed
in the Orange Book or it's not.  The counterclaim gives

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

40

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

the generic a one-shot knock-out remedy.  If it's not
properly delisted, it goes away, and a bunch of things
follow from that.  There's no 30-month stay.  There's no
paragraph IV litigation.  There's no impediment to FDA
approving the ANDA, because if the patent isn't listed
in the Orange Book, then a whole separate set of ANDA
approval requirements kick in.  A use code is nothing
like that.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But I'm still not
following it.  It's not listed simply because the number
is wrong?
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, the usual case is
it's not listed because it doesn't fit.  The most famous
example, the Buspar case, they claimed a metabolite
rather than the drug substance, and that wasn't a proper
listing for that reason.
            The correction language, which does come out
of the other bill, the alternative bill, and we do think
is an artifact, is the language we've used, is there to
give flexibility to courts.  If you have a situation of
an improperly listed patent, then a court has more
flexibility than simply delisting.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The brand
manufacturer has an overwhelming incentive to list the
correct patent, doesn't it?

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

41

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. PERRY:  Yes, Your Honor, and --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, why would we
give a procedure to an adversary to fix the number when
the brand manufacturer is going to fix it as soon as
it's alerted to the problem?
            MR. PERRY:  Because, Your Honor, if the
generic raises a counterclaim, if it's delisted, the
generic gets no more 180-day marketing exclusivity stay
at the end of the ANDA process.  If it's corrected to a
different patent number, the generic would still have
its 180-day exclusivity.  So, there's every incentive
for the generic to bring the counterclaim for a
correction if that's the appropriate remedy.
            And, again, it just gives more flexibility
to the courts.  That is something that very much would
benefit the generic, and it would be an available use of
the word "correct."  It may be an unusual one, but it's
certainly available.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  I can't imagine that that
would really come to -- I mean, if it's a transposition
of numbers, that there would be -- have to be a
proceeding to get it changed.  I mean, the minute that
was noticed, I assume that the brand manufacturer would
change it.
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, the transposition is

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

42

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

not the problem.  The more frequent -- the way we think
it would come up is these branded companies have large
portfolios of patents.  They list many patents in the
Orange Book.  You know, Novo has five or six right now.
Other companies have many more, dozens and dozens.  They
write these use codes, and they associate with -- them
with the patents.  And in the Orange Book -- by the way,
this -- it's called "the Orange Book" because it's
orange.  And it's thick.  It's got a lot of information
in it.  It has to list every single approved drug with
the use code.  I mean, it's just pages and pages of
numbers, is what's in here.
            It's not a transposition of numbers but,
rather, the -- listing one patent and improperly
associating it with a drug.  That could be corrected
through this counterclaim.  But, again, that's worlds
away from this use code challenge, which is really what
Caraco wants to bring, something that wasn't on
Congress's radar screen because FDA wrote the use codes
at that point.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Counsel, let's -- let's
assume -- because I now take from your earlier
conversation with Justice Breyer that you're saying the
use code here is absolutely right, because the only use
that we claimed was the combination use of the drug,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

43

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

your drug, with the metformin -- that the only thing
that's wrong here is the indication that the FDA has
required.  So, that's not even wrong because you had no
choice about that; is that correct?
            MR. PERRY:  That -- the indication is
correct.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Tell me -- what this
means practically, I believe, is that until your patent
expires, no generic can come in with a use that's
different than yours because they're going to be boxed
out by this indication, this overbroad indication.  Do
you actually think that that's what Congress intended?
I thought, with claim IV and section (viii), that what
Congress intended was to ensure that drugs got onto the
market as quickly as possible.
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, that argument was
made to FDA by the generic industry in the 1994
rulemaking, the first time this issue came up, and they
said you should not allow use codes to be based on
indications; you should instead require a description of
the patented method of use.  You heard Mr. Hurst say
that again this morning.  Here's what FDA said in
response.  It's page -- 59 Federal Register page 50,346,
quote:  "For a use patent, FDA includes in the Orange
Book a code identifying the indication covered by the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

44

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

patent."  We decline to expand the Orange Book to
include patent descriptions.  And then it went on to
explain that persons interested in patent descriptions
should consult the Official Gazette for Patents.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes, but what it also says
is this -- and that's what I want to go back to this
literal statutory argument.  We took the words --
because this is what you can correct.  What you can
correct, the statute says, is you can correct "patent
information submitted by the holder under subsection (b)
or (c)."  So, we look at (b), and what (b) says is (b)
tells us that you're supposed to submit, in respect to
where you claim the use of a drug, the patent number and
the expiration date.  So, so far, that seems to support
you.
            But then we look at the regulations which
the FDA promulgated, I take it promulgated in respect to
(b) and (c), particularly the sentence I read or maybe
some similar sentence.  And it tells you that you have
to provide the description of the patented method of use
as required for publication.  So, now I go back and look
to what you did provide.  And what you did provide was
you provided -- you said that what we do, we have a
method for improving glycemic control in adults with
type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

45

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            That seems to fit directly under (3) of the
FDA's requirement, and that FDA requirement was an
expansion of (b).  And, therefore, it sounds to me as if
when they say "correct," "correct the patent
information," it includes the sentence that you put
there that they'd like to see corrected.  Now, what's
wrong with that?
            MR. PERRY:  Justice Breyer, first, the
regulation is not an interpretation of 505(b).  It's an
implementation of 701.
            Second and more substantively, however, the
form -- you quoted accurately from Box 4.2b of the form.
There is also Box 4.2a of the form, which includes the
description of the method of use tied to the label,
which is required by subsection (P) of the regulation
that you were just quoting to me.  And that part of the
form -- Novo very carefully describes claim 4 of the
patent and ties it to the dosage and administration and
clinical pharmacology sections of the patent and calls
out by reference combination trials.  The only
combination trial in the label is the
metformin-repaglinide combination.
            And in FDA speak, that is a sufficiently --
because these forms -- by the way, you've got them in
here.  They're these little tiny boxes.  You can't put

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

46

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

very much information in there.  That is described in
there.  It is not that every piece of information
required by the regulation -- the regulation has 19
lettered questions, of which several have subparts; so,
it's 26 separate pieces of information.  They're not all
provided in one box, box 4.2b.  There's actually a whole
form.  It's four pages long.  We filled it all out.
            And there's an important point, Justice
Breyer.  This is a summary judgment case.  We put in a
declaration from an FDA expert -- it's in the record
before the Court -- explaining how every single box ties
to every single thing in the regulation.  That's
absolutely undisputed on this record.  There is no
contrary evidence as to Novo doing anything wrong.
            So, whether Congress -- you know -- to go
back to this counterclaim, we know Congress didn't
intend it to reach this form, because this form didn't
exist when Congress was debating the counterclaim.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  The Government -- now, the
Government, which is representing all the government
agencies, whether the FDA signs it or not, tells us that
that language, that (b) and (c) language, about patent
information as interpreted by the regs does cover this
stuff.
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

47

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE BREYER:  And this is about the most
technical statute I ever read --
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- and -- and when I'm
talking about patent information among (b) and (c), we
have the Government telling us that that covers this.
And why don't I just stop right there and say thank
goodness I'm out of this case -- and I'm not out of it.
            (Laughter.)
            MR. PERRY:  I -- I think I can do no better
than refer the Court again to the 2007 rulemaking,
Justice Scalia, 72 Federal Register page 21,268, which
the United States does not address and which Caraco does
not address, in which FDA addressed your point,
Justice Breyer, and explained that this information,
while useful -- and we have never challenged FDA's
authority to require the information, but it is not an
interpretation of that language, "patent information."
And this Court sees agency --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And even if it were, as I
believe the Government acknowledged, this is not a
situation in which we owe deference to the FDA.  The
issue is whether a lawsuit can be brought or not.
            MR. PERRY:  Correct.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And we -- we don't decide

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

48

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

whether we have authority to decide cases on the basis
of what the agency thinks.
            MR. PERRY:  It is certainly --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  What is the parade of
horribles that you imagine if we were to read the
counterclaim provision in the way your adversary is
promoting and the Government is promoting?  What --
what, presumably, in the normal case and the one that
the regulations appear to expect is that the use code,
the indication code, everything is going to match the
patent.  So, in that situation, the counterclaim would
have no work to do.
            So, what's the parade of horribles?
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, first, the
counterclaim has no work to do for use codes.  There's a
complete disconnect there.  So --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I -- I'm asking you to
accept that we were to -- as an assumption only,
don't -- it's not intended to be a -- a ruling -- to
assume that we read the counterclaim in the way your
adversaries want us to.
            MR. PERRY:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  What's the parade of
horribles?
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor, it is going to add

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

49

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

complexity, expense, and so forth.  The reason -- the
problems with all civil litigation, all new causes of
action -- and this was raised during the congressional
debates.  When they proposed a freestanding cause of
action for generics to sue over a whole bunch of things,
Congress was up in arms, said no, we're not going to do
that because we don't want to let private parties into
the FDA process.
            This Court is familiar with that and the
parade of horribles from the Buckman case.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But, Mr. Perry, there are
also horribles on the other side, of course.  I mean,
here's -- there's -- there's the statute, and it has
three provisions, and two of them are vague, and one of
them works against you.  One is "an approved method."  I
think, you know, you both go back and forth about it; it
depends on context.  One is "patent information," which,
you know, maybe you're right, and maybe Mr. Hurst is
right.  It's not really quite clear what it means to be
under subsection (b) or (c).  The third is "correct."
You basically read "correct" out of the statute.  So, at
best, this is an unclear statute from your point of
view.
            And then there's the question of what it
allows you to do.  The statute read your way essentially

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

50

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

allows you to unilaterally expand your patent in areas
in which it's quite clear that your patent ought not to
go -- does not go -- but allows you to do that.  So, why
should we read the statute so that it effects a purpose
that's entirely antagonistic to the purpose that
Congress had in passing this statute, given that the
statute is at best from your perspective ambiguous?
            MR. PERRY:  Justice Kagan, this statute was
a political compromise.  There is no debate on the
historical record about that.
            And the compromise, as Mr. Hurst indicated
earlier, was that the statute would deal with some
things -- the counterclaim would deal with some things,
delisting -- and almost everything else would be turned
over to the FDA.  And FDA had this extensive rulemaking
that, as Mr. Hurst said, Congress was aware of.
            And during that rulemaking, Congress did
several things.  First, it confirmed that the -- the
industry would use the use codes.  Second, that use
codes could be based on the indication.  So, there's no
extension of the patent monopoly.  It is simply
following FDA's instructions as to indication-based use
codes --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Perry, may I ask you,
on that core question:  We have a patent on a drug

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

51

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

alone.  It expires, and then the patent holder gets a
label patent that's on a method of use, and we have a
generic that wants to sell the drug alone which is no
longer patented.  Doesn't want to sell it in combination
with anything else.  Wants to sell the drug alone.
            Can it do so without infringing the
method-of-use patent?
            MR. PERRY:  No.  Your Honor, we will -- they
will be sued for infringement if they ever go to market,
because the generic substitution laws present in 49
States require or allow pharmacists to substitute the
products whether or not the combination is on the label.
So, there will always be an infringement suit, which
gets back to Justice Kagan's question:  Why would
Congress have contemplated this?  They didn't
contemplate this.  They contemplated delisting, where
you take it out of the infringement suit altogether.
            This issue -- indications, use codes,
section (viii) -- that is all within the agency.  And if
there's a litigation problem with it or challenge to it,
that is what the APA is for.  And, again, there have
been dozens of APA cases where the generics largely have
challenged FDA's determinations in that respect.
            It is not what the counterclaim is for.
This is a very narrow provision.  What we're -- we're

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

52

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

parsing, by the way, two clauses in one sentence of a
statute.  The 2003 amendments were 415 pages long.  The
Hatch-Waxman Act is thousands of provisions long.  Very
delicate balance between lots of competing interests,
billions of dollars at stake.  And we have to be
careful.  When Congress creates a new cause of action,
the law of unintended consequences kicks in here.
            We know this is not -- that this case is not
what Congress intended.  The counterclaim we don't
believe can be read it all to it, even if it's
ambiguous.  Putting it in context and looking at what
FDA has actually said about these matters in its
rulemakings when faced with the same challenges by the
generic industry that Mr. Hurst presents here, it has
rejected them over and over again as a policy matter.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  To come back to Justice
Kagan's question, your position is really nothing can be
done by a generic that is blocked from marketing a drug
for a nonpatented use by a use code that -- that is --
that seems to cover that use.
            MR. PERRY:  In this case, Justice Alito,
there were two points:  First, FDA rejected Caraco's
administrative challenge to the use code.  They could
have taken that to the D.C. Circuit under the APA.
Second, they have indicated a rejection of their section

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

53

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

(viii) carve-out because of the use code.  They could
take that to the D.C. Circuit under the APA.  That is
the usual course for challenging agency action.
            If there are any problems here -- our
position is we have complied in every respect at every
moment with every bit of FDA's regulations.  And, again,
that -- that's what the evidence in this record shows.
            So, again, I need to push back a little on
extensions and monopolies and so forth, because that's
not what this case is about.  This case is about a
properly working administrative process, and should --
in private litigation between two parties in which the
FDA will not be a party, should that regulatory regime
be dismantled.  You know -- and we actually asked to
bring the FDA in, in this case.  Novo did.  And Caraco
resisted that.
            You know, we think that if you're going to
debate the administration of the Orange Book, it should
be under the APA --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But --
            MR. PERRY:  -- with the FDA as a party.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  But here's what we know
about Congress's intent, and it goes back to the Mylan
suit:  What we know about Congress's intent is that
Congress wanted to give a generic manufacturer in this

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

54

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

situation a remedy when there was a completely
irrelevant patent.  And the question is why we should
consider this to be any different.  In some respects,
this makes -- this is worse from the generic
manufacturer's point of view because the generic
manufacturer doesn't even have a defense in an
infringement suit.
            MR. PERRY:  Your Honor --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  So, why should we think that
the Congress that really cared about the result in Mylan
does not care about this?
            MR. PERRY:  Mylan, in the response, gives
the generic a one-shot remedy, and you're out of it
altogether.  And it's a black-and-white decision.  It's
an on/off switch.  Either the patent is properly listed
or not.  A use code in the Orange Book -- there are over
a thousand of them.  They are shades of gray.  There
are -- there are very specific ones, very general ones.
I read to the Court some of the ones that FDA itself
wrote.
            You would get into these long involved
questions about compliance and so forth -- to the
effect, Congress wanted to make generic approvals
quicker in the Mylan situation.  FDA itself -- and I
started out my argument reading from that page, page 24a

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

55

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

of the reply brief, where the FDA said increased
litigation over use codes -- patent listings -- would
not assure faster generic entry because you'd spend
years and years, as we all have, litigating these very
issues.
            So, the Congress hadn't focused on this,
which it never did.  There's not one word in the
thousands and thousands of pages of legislative history
about use codes.  Had it focused on this, it would never
have gone this way because it didn't need to.  And when
it did have the broader bill, S. 812, it failed.
            Thank you.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Hurst, you have 4 minutes.
           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY JAMES F. HURST
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
            MR. HURST:  Thank you.
            I'd like to start by asking the Court, if I
can, to turn to the Joint Appendix, second volume, 484.
And I want to address two issues:  the argument that the
use code is disconnected from the patent itself and it
-- it may relate to the indication regardless of what
the patent says, and whether or not the information is
being submitted under subsection (b) and (c).
            If you're at 484, this form went through

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

56

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

notice-and-comment rulemaking before the enactment of
the counterclaim.  The title, "Patent Information
Submitted" -- that -- that is a -- this carries out the
regulation 314.53, entitled "Submission of patent
information."
            Now look at right below those two boxes.
What does it say -- how does it say the information is
being submitted?  This is a form Novo signed.  "The
following is provided in accordance with section
505(b)" -- that's 355(b) and -- "(c) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act."
            Moreover, when the FDA issued this patent
submission regulation in its final rule, it cited 505 as
its legal authority.  That's at 28J of the Blue Book.
It cited -- and it specifically called out subsections
(b) and (c).
            So, this is a regulation that was enacted
prior to the enactment of the counterclaim.  And now --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And what do you say about
the -- the section cited by -- by your colleague?
            MR. HURST:  We address -- he's citing
something the FDA said in 2007.  And if you actually
read it, we cited it -- we addressed this in our briefs.
It actually says our -- our legal authority for doing
this was explained fully in 2003.  And in 2003, the FDA

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

57

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

cites 505.
            Can I turn you quickly to 487 now?  This
addresses quite specifically this notion that the
indication can be used even if it's disconnected from
the patent.  4.2b.  Remember what the regulation says,
and Justice Breyer read this before.  It's at 127a of
the appendix.  But the regulation says that the brand is
required to, quote, "the description of the patented
method of use as required for publication."  They're
supposed to provide that information.
            And look what the actual instruction says.
It could not be more clear.  4.2b, bottom right side.
"The answer to this question" -- this is where the brand
supplies the use code -- "The answer to this question
will be what FDA uses to create a 'use code' for Orange
Book publication.  The use code designates a method of
use patent that claims the approved indication or use"
-- it depends on what the patent claims -- "of a drug
product."
            And then it goes on to explain why you need
to do that:  "Each approved use claimed by the patent
should be separately identified in this section and
contain adequate information" -- this refers to section
(viii) -- "adequate information to assist 505(b)(2) and
ANDA applicants" -- that's us -- "in determining whether

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

58

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

a listed method of use patent claims a use for which the
ANDA applicant is not seeking."  That is precisely the
situation we are facing.
            We have offered a construction of this
statute that is fully consistent with its text, its
structure, and its purpose.  And it really is the only
reading of the statute that carries out congressional
intent in terms of trying to prevent situations where
incorrect patent information is unfairly delaying
generic competition.
            Up to this point right now, Novo has still
failed to identify any reason why anybody in Congress
would want the system to work as Novo posits, where the
brand company gets to supply an overbroad use code,
without judicial review, without agency review, that
blocks admittedly noninfringing products from the
marketplace.  And I -- and I submit that given the
addition of the correction remedy, that would not be in
there if this was not designed to address use codes,
because that's the only thing that can be corrected
without remedy.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Going back to the
question that I had and a more practical question --
            MR. HURST:  Sure.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  As I read the record, in

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

59

April of '08, the FDA rejected your section (viii)
application.
            MR. HURST:  Yes.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  All right?  And it asked
you to submit an amended code.  Your brief says we did
it in September of 2010.  Is it anywhere in the record?
            MR. HURST:  The question is did we --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  That you submitted what
the FDA requested for your claim 4, the amended label?
            MR. HURST:  Oh.  Yes, we -- we did, and it's
in JA 777, paragraph 20.  It's a stipulated fact.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            MR. HURST:  Thank you, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The case is
submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 11:06 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official
Official

60

A

ability 9:18 11:1
able 25:12
above-entitled

1:12 59:17

absolutely 42:24

46:13

accept 31:1

32:10 48:18
accepted 9:2

accepting 9:1,13

30:4

9:19

accepts 21:24
accuracy 18:12
accurate 11:24
accurately 18:4

acknowledge

acknowledged

45:12

7:20

47:21

act 11:14 20:15

24:25 29:4
30:15,17 52:3
56:11

action 10:5

14:16 17:21,24
21:3 23:24
26:5 30:10,13
30:14 33:14
39:11 49:3,5
52:6 53:3
actions 15:7
actors 19:11
actual 16:16
29:21 36:23
57:11

Adams 17:22
add 48:25
addition 15:2

58:18

additional 38:1
address 14:16

38:24 47:13,14
55:20 56:21
58:19

addressed 8:16
8:25 38:17,18
47:14 56:23
addresses 57:3
adequate 57:23

57:24

administer

13:18 30:19
administered

administering

34:15

12:4

administration

27:21 30:19
31:20 34:14
45:18 53:18
administrative

22:2 30:5,7
52:23 53:11
admittedly 4:8
11:4,6 58:16
adopted 29:4
adults 33:10
34:20 44:24

adversaries

adversary 41:3

48:21

48:6

46:21

agencies 17:7,23

agency 12:4
17:13 18:1
30:10,13 32:1
32:20 47:19
48:2 51:19
53:3 58:15

agency's 17:14
agree 11:9,13,16
agrees 27:3,7

32:20

ahead 22:21

36:8

AL 1:4,7
alerted 41:5
Alito 4:10,24

6:20 7:6 10:1,9
19:14,16,20

20:8,10 52:16
52:21

allow 10:16

43:19 51:11
allowed 11:11
allows 49:25

50:1,3

alternative 9:4,8

9:20 19:6
26:24 29:18
34:17 37:25
40:18

alternatives

altogether 51:17

ambiguous 50:7

amended 23:13
23:13 59:5,9
amendments

52:2

amicus 1:20 2:8

16:10

ANDA 6:15

33:14,15 35:17
40:5,6 41:9
57:25 58:2

ANDAs 29:15
answer 7:3 9:4

29:22

54:14

52:11

13:4 21:12
28:1 36:12
57:13,14

answering 15:19
antagonistic

anticompetitive

anybody 38:2

anymore 38:22
APA 21:2,16
27:21 30:9
31:19 32:2
51:21,22 52:24
53:2,19

appeals 9:17

50:5

39:11

58:12

appear 17:14

APPEARAN...

48:9

1:15

appendix 24:6

28:2 55:19
57:7

applicable 5:7
applicant 6:15
29:1 33:14,15
58:2

applicants 57:25
applicant's 31:2
application

23:17 26:1,21
59:2

applies 30:1
approach 29:1
appropriate
22:11 41:13

approval 10:12

19:5 25:15
33:6,6 40:7

approvals 54:23
approve 26:1
approved 3:16
3:21,23 6:14
6:16,18 28:12
29:2,16 33:19
42:10 49:15
57:17,21

approving 40:5
April 59:1
arbitrariness

32:13

arbitrary 21:4
30:6,8 31:25
32:9

areas 30:20 50:1
argue 8:8
arguing 3:18
15:14 30:6
34:5

argument 1:13
2:2,5,9,12 3:3
3:7 6:21 16:8
23:22 27:15

31:25 37:3,6
39:18,20,23
43:16 44:7
54:25 55:15,20
arguments 29:6
arms 49:6
artifact 40:19
asked 6:3 13:25

27:23 53:14
59:4

asking 4:16,17
4:18 9:24 14:3
22:11 48:17
55:18

aspects 31:19
assert 33:15
asserted 5:19,23

6:10

assist 57:24
Assistant 1:18
associate 42:6
associating

association

42:15

35:11

assume 8:24

12:2 23:19,21
25:17 41:23
42:22 48:20
assumed 10:14
assumption

48:18

assurance 29:15
assure 55:3
astronomically

14:11

attempting 4:7
author 20:24
authoring 12:12

12:14

authority 35:10

35:13 47:17
48:1 56:14,24
automatically

23:25

available 8:14
8:19 10:3,11

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

Official

61

27:2 32:4
41:16,18

aware 50:16
awful 29:19
a.m 1:14 3:2

59:16
A/S 1:7

B

b 35:2 37:20

44:10,11,11,11
44:18 45:3
46:22 47:5
49:20 55:24
56:16

back 13:24

21:11 26:23
32:21 35:15
36:22 44:6,21
46:16 49:16
51:14 52:16
53:8,23 58:22

bad 7:8 29:14
balance 29:4

52:4

base 29:25
based 9:13

12:12 35:16
43:19 50:20

basic 18:14
basically 49:21
basis 19:23
23:12 48:1
battle 32:2,2
beef 7:11,12
behalf 2:4,7,11
2:14 3:8 16:9
27:16 55:16
believe 4:13

7:15 28:23,25
43:8 47:21
52:10

belong 27:8
benefit 14:21

41:16

BENJAMIN

1:18 2:6 16:8

best 13:5 22:1
49:22 50:7
better 47:10
betting 31:15
bigger 17:9
bill 7:25 15:6

37:25 40:18,18
55:11

billions 52:5
bit 4:20 28:22

black-and-wh...

53:6

54:14

blah 32:19,19,19
blocked 10:25

52:18

blocking 3:19

7:5

blocks 58:16
blue 32:23 56:14
Book 8:10 14:7
16:16 18:11
27:9,21 39:6
39:25 40:6
42:4,7,8 43:25
44:1 53:18
54:16 56:14
57:16

bottom 32:25

57:12

box 39:9 45:12
45:13 46:6,6
46:11

boxed 43:10
boxes 45:25 56:6
brand 6:13 8:11
12:13,14 13:21
14:6,11,17,19
16:18,19 21:17
21:24 32:12,14
40:23 41:4,23
57:7,13 58:14
branded 35:12

39:4 42:2

brands 13:10
brand's 32:10
breadth 32:18

Breyer 32:21
33:4 34:7,18
34:24 36:9,20
37:2,5,8 42:23
44:5 45:8 46:9
46:19 47:1,4
47:15 57:6

brief 4:10 17:15

28:24 29:12
31:23 32:23
36:3,5,6,22
55:1 59:5
briefs 17:17
38:9 56:23
bring 32:21

33:13 41:12
42:18 53:15

broad 6:23 7:13

19:18

broader 55:11
brought 47:23
Buckman 49:10
building 18:5
bunch 40:2 49:5
burden 6:15,17

32:3,3

Buspar 40:14

C

c 2:1 3:1 35:2

37:20 44:11,18
46:22 47:5
49:20 55:24
56:10,16
cake 5:14
call 7:24
called 42:8

56:15

calling 16:19
calls 45:19
capable 31:16
capricious 21:4
30:6,9 32:1,9
Caraco 1:3 3:4
4:7 24:5 25:11
25:17 30:5
34:8 42:18

47:13 53:15

Caraco's 52:22
care 36:10 54:11
cared 54:10
careful 52:6
carefully 45:17
carried 6:17
carries 56:3

58:7

carve 10:13,16
10:24 13:20
25:12

carved 18:25
19:2 22:16

carve-out 18:19
26:2,21 31:24
53:1

carve-outs
18:11,15

case 3:4,19 5:6,8
17:3,13 19:24
20:3,12 22:10
31:9,22 32:7,8
32:16 38:14
40:12,14 46:9
47:8 48:8
49:10 52:8,21
53:10,10,15
59:14,16

cases 19:25 38:9

48:1 51:22
cause 14:16

17:21,24 49:4
52:6

causes 15:7 49:2
certain 39:4
certainly 14:12

22:9 41:18
48:3

certification
10:4 26:22

challenge 21:6
27:20,22 29:7
30:5,7 31:15
31:23 42:17
51:20 52:23

challenged 21:4

30:10,13 35:12
47:16 51:23

challenges 31:19

52:13

challenging 53:3
change 31:6,9
32:12 41:24
changed 31:9

32:12,14 41:22

changes 25:10
characterize

18:4

chart 36:22
Chicago 1:16
Chief 3:3,9 16:6

16:11 20:23
21:2 22:22
27:4,13,17
28:5,8 29:18
30:12 36:15,18
40:9,23 41:2
55:13 59:12,14

choice 19:15
25:7,9 43:4
choices 18:23
chosen 30:16,25
Circuit 9:17,18

30:8 31:20
32:8,9 52:24
53:2

circumstance

circumstances

10:18

8:7

cite 4:11,18 5:1
5:2,2,6,8 31:22
35:10,14,20

cited 5:2 36:2,4
38:9 56:13,15
56:20,23
cites 57:1
citing 14:11

56:21

civil 49:2
claim 3:15,21

5:19,22 6:9,14
6:17,19,23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

62

conversation

42:23

conviction 5:11
cooperation

30:23

copies 23:14
core 50:25
correct 3:19

4:12,15 7:21
8:1,14 9:25
11:25 15:5,6
15:22,22,24
33:17,25 37:14
37:20 39:19
40:25 41:17
43:4,6 44:8,9,9
45:4,4 47:24
49:20,21

corrected 37:13

41:9 42:15
45:6 58:20

correcting 14:1
correction 6:22
6:25 7:14,17
7:18,22,24 8:6
8:17,18 14:2,4
16:1 40:17
41:13 58:18
correctly 8:9
correspondence

Cosmetic 56:11
counsel 13:23
14:23 15:16
16:6 22:18
27:13 42:21
55:13 59:12
counterclaim

3:19 4:21 6:16
8:10,13 9:6,23
10:2 11:20
12:5 15:13
17:20 20:20
24:22 25:2,5,9
27:1,8,22
33:16 36:24
38:3,7,12,16

38:17,19,23
39:12,14,25
41:7,12 42:16
46:16,18 48:6
48:11,15,20
50:13 51:24
52:9 56:2,18

couple 32:4
course 23:4 26:7

30:10 34:4
49:12 53:3
court 1:1,13

3:10 4:11,19
6:3,15 7:4
16:12 17:20,22
19:9,13,25
20:11,19,21
24:20,23 27:18
30:11 35:25
36:24 40:21
46:11 47:11,19
49:9 54:19
55:18

courts 9:17
19:12 25:3
40:20 41:15

cover 33:23

37:10 46:23
52:20

covered 3:14
27:7 43:25

covers 34:1 47:6
create 57:15
created 38:3
creates 11:13

25:3 52:6

criticism 19:22
criticizing 19:23
cross-reference

curiae 1:20 2:8

13:13

16:10

current 23:14

D

D 3:1
date 8:7,12,14

13:15 19:10
20:2 21:19
24:20 25:18
26:17,17 33:19
38:5 43:13
44:13 45:17
59:9

claimed 33:7,13

40:14 42:25
57:21

claiming 3:24

17:18

claims 23:23

37:1 57:17,18
58:1

clauses 52:1
clear 27:19

32:16 49:19
50:2 57:12

clearly 5:10 12:2

29:12

client 4:7
clinical 45:19
code 3:20 6:23
6:24 7:5,12
9:13,19,25
11:24 13:18,19
13:22 18:12
19:17,22 20:11
20:20,21 21:3
21:25 22:6,8
22:12,13,24
23:6 25:10
28:4 29:25
30:1,4,5,6 31:5
31:8,24 32:10
32:20 40:7
42:11,17,24
43:25 48:9,10
52:19,23 53:1
54:16 55:21
57:14,15,16
58:14 59:5

codes 11:12 12:9
12:12,14,18,21
13:11 16:14
18:10 27:24

28:3,13,18
29:20,24 38:25
42:6,19 43:19
48:15 50:19,20
50:23 51:18
55:2,9 58:19
colleague 36:3
36:15 56:20

combination 4:6
42:25 45:20,21
45:22 51:4,12
combined 26:2

34:11

come 6:15 38:23

39:5 40:17
41:20 42:2
43:9 52:16
companies

11:12 12:13,14
22:5 39:4,10
42:2,5

company 6:13

8:11 13:21
14:6,11,17,18
14:19 20:16
22:7 58:14

competing 52:4
competition
17:8 58:10

complete 48:16
completely 54:1
complexity 49:1
compliance

54:22

complied 53:5
compromise

50:9,11

conceivable

conceivably

15:10

26:24

concerned 17:8
concrete 14:9
conference

confidential

38:20

23:18

confirmed 50:18
conflated 34:8
Congress 7:8

9:21,22 11:10
11:14,19 12:1
14:15,25 15:1
18:1,4,6 37:24
38:24 39:14
43:12,14 46:15
46:16,18 49:6
50:6,16,17
51:15 52:6,9
53:25 54:10,23
55:6 58:12

congressional

49:3 58:7
Congress's

42:19 53:23,24

consequences

consider 54:3
consistent 29:3

constructing

52:7

58:5

18:5

construction

19:10 21:7,19
26:25 58:4
construe 6:4
construing

consult 44:4
contain 57:23
contemplate
11:10 51:16
contemplated

51:15,16

context 4:14,18

4:19,20,23
5:15,16,17
6:12,19 49:17
52:11

contrary 46:14
control 26:8

33:10 34:10,20
44:24

controls 23:2

Alderson Reporting Company

17:19,20 26:16

29:21

37:18,22 38:4
44:14
dates 8:5
deal 24:22 30:23

50:12,13
debate 50:9

53:18

debated 37:24
debates 49:4
debating 46:18
decade 9:16
December 1:10

11:20

decide 19:12
47:25 48:1

decided 13:7,10

20:11 26:19
28:20

decides 14:7
decision 4:11
17:22 19:10
20:6 31:4
54:14

decisions 29:14

31:16

declaration

16:18 46:10
decline 44:1
defeats 19:3
defend 10:5
defense 38:5

54:6

deference 17:14
17:15,17,18,23
18:3 21:18
47:22

defining 17:23
definition 15:21

15:23

delay 27:10
delaying 58:9
deletion 6:21,25

7:14,16,19
16:1

delicate 52:4
delisted 40:2

41:7

Official

63

delisting 38:7
39:23 40:22
50:14 51:16

Democrats

37:25

Department

1:19

depends 4:14
49:17 57:18
describe 21:22

27:24

described 10:18

13:14 32:7
33:24 46:1

describes 45:17
describing
21:24,25
description

13:13 33:25
34:1 43:20
44:20 45:14
57:8

descriptions

44:2,3

designates 57:16
designed 25:5

58:19

detail 15:5 18:22
determination

determinations

31:4

51:23

57:25

determining

de-link 29:23
diabetes 4:3,7
33:11 34:20
37:11 44:25
dialogue 18:2
different 3:21
4:20,22 6:4
34:12 35:4
41:10 43:10
54:3

difficult 20:3
direct 31:23
directly 45:1

disclosed 34:11
disconnect

48:16

disconnected
55:21 57:4

discretion 31:1
discussing 7:9
dismantled

53:14

dispute 3:15

20:5

distinct 4:22
7:18 15:25
distinction

34:15

district 24:22
doing 31:16,17

33:8 46:14
56:24

dollars 52:5
dosage 34:13

45:18

dose 15:23
dozen 31:19
dozens 42:5,5

51:22

drafting 7:9

12:8

drug 3:11,17,23
4:3 10:6 11:5,6
13:14 14:13
20:15 28:10,11
28:16 30:18,18
33:6,19 35:19
40:15 42:10,15
42:25 43:1
44:13 50:25
51:3,5 52:18
56:11 57:18

drugs 3:13 4:21

29:16 43:14

due 38:11
D.C 1:9,19,22

9:18 30:8
31:20 32:8,8
52:24 53:2

E

e 2:1 3:1,1 35:4
earlier 42:22

easy 6:9 19:24

50:12

20:1

eat 36:1
effect 54:23
effective 19:22
effects 17:8 50:4
efficient 9:23
eight 38:9
Either 39:24

54:15

elegance 6:7
elegantly 6:2
element 5:12
eliminate 14:4
enact 14:15

39:14

enacted 11:19

12:3,5,15
14:25 15:1
56:17

enactment 56:1

enforcement

56:18

30:25

engage 16:23

21:8,13

engaged 18:2
enormously

9:22

ensure 14:20
18:12 43:14
ensuring 11:24
enter 29:16
entered 30:21
entire 39:20
entirely 38:23

entitled 11:17

50:5

56:4

entry 55:3
envision 21:10
envisions 18:14
ESQ 1:16,18,22

2:3,6,10,13

essentially 10:23

13:7 39:9
49:25
ET 1:4,7
evaluate 19:7

evaluation 19:9

20:20

21:9

evaluations

16:23

eventually 13:9
evidence 46:14

53:7

exactly 3:18

17:12

example 28:1
31:7 40:14

exception 23:14
exclusivity 41:8

41:11

excuse 16:19
exercise 30:25
exist 46:18
existing 9:14
expand 44:1

50:1

expansion 45:3
expect 5:18 48:9
expected 6:7
expense 27:10

49:1

expert 46:10
expertise 13:2

16:22

expiration 8:5,7
8:12,14 37:18
37:22 38:4
39:5 44:14

expired 3:24 4:1

expires 43:9

4:4

51:1

explain 24:8,11

44:3 57:20

explained 35:15

39:4 47:15

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

64

56:25

explaining

46:11

extension 50:21
extensions 30:21

53:9

extensive 50:15

F

F 1:16 2:3,13 3:7

55:15

faced 52:13
facilitate 35:16
facing 58:3
fact 3:20 6:1

7:25 9:9 12:7
24:3,5 26:23
59:11

facts 32:16
fail 11:3 21:6
failed 5:11,13
7:25 55:11
58:12

faith 20:4
false 25:8 27:25
familiar 49:9
famous 40:13
far 44:14
faster 55:3
FCC 9:1
FDA 9:13,18

10:11,16 11:11
11:17,22 12:8
12:12,17 13:5
13:19 16:14,15
16:22,25 17:4
17:7 18:5,8,10
18:18,20,20,22
19:6,8,13,18
19:21 20:1,6
20:15 21:3,6
21:10,13,14,15
21:17,22,23,25
22:14,23 23:3
23:5 25:19,25
26:9,12,15
27:23 28:13,18

28:20,22 29:8
29:12,14,19,23
30:3,4,7 31:3,9
31:16 32:12,15
34:14 35:15
40:4 42:19
43:2,17,22,24
44:17 45:2,23
46:10,21 47:14
47:22 49:8
50:15,15 52:12
52:22 53:13,15
53:21 54:19,24
55:1 56:12,22
56:25 57:15
59:1,9

FDA's 9:14 17:3

19:20 26:20
27:21 30:14
31:23 35:12
45:2 47:16
50:22 51:23
53:6

FDA-approved

FDA-authored

3:12

28:2,3

Federal 9:17

14:16 17:21,24
28:25 30:18
43:23 47:12
56:10
fell 5:14
file 6:15 10:2
14:18 35:25
39:5

filed 9:23 10:3

23:12 30:5

fill 5:23,24
filled 46:7
final 56:13
find 36:16
Finish 15:18

27:4

finished 36:19
first 3:4,22,23

7:9 15:14

16:14 22:3
29:23 38:10
43:18 45:8
48:14 50:18
52:22

fit 34:3,6 39:7
40:13 45:1

five 42:4
fix 7:4 14:19
38:3 39:12
41:3,4

fixed 38:12,13

38:15,16
fixing 8:19
fix-all 39:17
flexibility 40:20

40:22 41:14
focused 36:25

55:6,9

follow 40:3
following 40:10

50:22 56:9
follows 31:8
Food 20:15

30:18 56:11
fooled 19:25
force 11:1,2
forcing 10:23
form 34:17

45:12,12,13,17
46:7,17,17
55:25 56:8
forms 45:24
forth 29:8 49:1

49:16 53:9
54:22

four 46:7
framed 6:8
freestanding

49:4

free-form 16:18
frequent 42:1
frequently

39:15

friends 35:14
Fruit 17:22
FTC 38:8,19

39:3,13

fully 56:25 58:5
further 36:12

G

G 3:1
Gazette 44:4
general 1:19
29:4 35:9
54:18

generic 3:13

5:20,24 6:10
10:11 13:20
14:18 18:19
21:17 26:18
29:5,16 31:25
39:10 40:1
41:7,8,10,12
41:16 43:9,17
51:3,10 52:14
52:18 53:25
54:4,5,13,23
55:3 58:10

generics 18:24

19:1 29:9
31:21 49:5
51:22

getting 19:4

39:9

Ginsburg 3:22
12:7,10 17:2
32:6 38:15
41:19 50:24

give 13:13 15:11
15:12 17:13,15
35:20 40:20
41:3 53:25

given 19:8 50:6

58:17

gives 39:25

41:14 54:12
glycemic 33:10
34:10,20 44:24

go 7:4 16:25
20:1 22:21
25:10,11 30:8
36:8 44:6,21

46:15 49:16
50:3,3 51:9

goes 18:20 40:2

53:23 57:20

going 5:6,7

19:25 20:6,9
21:11,15,16,17
21:18 24:1
25:10,11,12
29:19 31:1
41:4 43:10
48:10,25 49:6
53:17 58:22
good 9:11 19:9
20:4 22:2,12
goodness 6:10

47:8

government
13:1 17:7
46:19,20,20
47:6,21 48:7

gray 54:17
ground 6:21,25

7:13 10:6
33:18

guess 6:2 37:11
guide 17:17

H

half-hour 27:19
hand 21:11 36:3
happens 11:3
Hatch-Waxman

29:4 38:10
52:3

Hatch-Waxm...

hear 3:3 5:7

19:3

30:3

heard 8:8 28:22

32:18 43:21

high 14:11
hire 29:19
historical 50:10
history 55:8
holder 19:14,16
29:1 33:5,5,6

Alderson Reporting Company

33:17 44:10
51:1

holders 12:8
Honor 28:7

29:23 30:16
31:18 32:11
33:3 34:22
35:8 36:2,6
37:14,20 38:6
39:3,22 40:12
41:1,6,25
43:16 46:25
47:3 48:14,25
51:8 54:8
59:13

Honors 32:4
Honor's 10:14
horribles 48:5

48:13,24 49:10
49:12

Horwich 1:18
2:6 16:7,8,11
17:2,5,11,16
18:13,18 19:15
19:19 20:9,18
20:24 21:5,23
22:9,16,25
23:3,10,16,21
24:2,5,9,15,24
25:5,15,20,22
25:25 26:6,13
26:20 27:6
30:3

hundreds 4:24

4:25

Hurst 1:16 2:3
2:13 3:6,7,9
4:1,13 5:4,21
5:25 6:12 7:2
7:15 9:3,11
10:8,10 11:9
11:16 12:10,20
13:4,16,24
15:3,9,11,17
15:20 16:4
27:25 29:6
43:21 49:18

Official

65

50:11,16 52:14
55:14,15,17
56:21 58:24
59:3,7,10,13

hyperparathy...

28:17

I
idea 29:14
identical 24:12

30:1

identified 7:25

38:9 57:22

identify 6:13,16

29:2 58:12
identifying

43:25

ignored 24:23
II 34:20
Illinois 1:16
imagine 41:19

48:5

immense 15:6
impediment

40:4

45:10

implementation

important 16:21

18:1 29:11
38:6 46:8
importantly

31:3,22

improper 38:11
38:18,21 39:2

improperly

40:21 42:14

improving

33:10 34:10,19
44:24

incentive 14:17
14:18,20 40:24
41:11

include 5:14
7:11 44:2

includes 24:9

43:24 45:5,13
including 9:16

31:21

incorrect 9:19
12:11,11 58:9
incorrectly 8:12
increased 55:1
indicated 50:11

52:25

indication 28:11

28:15 29:25
30:1 31:7,8,10
34:9,9,12,16
34:23 43:2,5
43:11,11,25
48:10 50:20
55:22 57:4,17
indications 22:8

22:10 29:24
34:13 43:20
51:18

indication-bas...

50:22

individual 29:13
inducement

24:15

industry 28:21

29:5 35:12
43:17 50:19
52:14

inform 22:13
information 8:4

8:5,16 11:19
11:21 12:13
16:17 18:6
22:2 33:18
34:21,25 35:1
35:3,13 37:9
37:17,19 38:1
42:9 44:10
45:5 46:1,2,5
46:23 47:5,15
47:17,18 49:17
55:23 56:2,5,7
57:10,23,24
58:9

infringe 10:7,23

10:24 11:2

infringed 24:21

infringement
10:4,5 23:25
24:13,13,16
25:1,8 26:5
33:14 51:9,13
51:17 54:7

infringing 10:19

26:18 51:6

ingredient 5:14
injunction 9:24
instance 5:10

instruction

instructions

22:3

57:11

50:22

integrity 18:7
intend 46:17
intended 22:13
39:16 43:12,14
48:19 52:9

intent 53:23,24

58:8

interagency

30:23

interest 21:16
interested 44:3
interests 52:4
interpretation

35:18 45:9
47:18

interpretations

interpreted

35:19

46:23

invalidate 10:20

involved 26:16

irrelevant 27:12

11:3

54:21

54:2

issue 6:5 14:25

15:1 26:19
27:20 43:18
47:23 51:18
issued 11:17
12:4 35:7,9

56:12

issues 19:4

30:22,24 55:5
55:20

IV 10:3,15,17,19

11:2 20:22
23:24,24 25:7
25:10,16 26:3
26:8,22 27:10
40:4 43:13

J

J 1:18 2:6 16:8
JA 59:11
JAMES 1:16 2:3
2:13 3:7 55:15

job 7:8 22:12
joint 24:6 28:2

55:19

judge 5:5,5
judgment 25:16

46:9

judicial 58:15
June 11:19

12:11,13,15

Justice 1:19 3:3
3:9,22 4:10,24
5:17,21,22,25
6:6,20 7:6 8:20
8:23 9:7,12
10:1,9 11:9
12:7,10,16,17
12:25 13:12,23
13:25 14:23,24
15:4,10,16,18
16:2,4,6,11,13
17:2,11 18:9
18:17 19:14,16
19:20 20:8,10
20:23 21:2,12
21:21 22:4,15
22:18,19,20,21
22:22,22,23
23:1,8,11,19
23:23 24:4,7
24:11,19,25
25:14,17,21,23

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

66

38:1,1 52:4

6:8

M

majority 20:25
manufacturer
23:15 40:24
41:4,23 53:25
54:6

manufacturer's

54:5

MARK 1:22
2:10 27:15

market 3:13 4:8

10:20 11:4,8
19:2 29:16
43:15 51:9

marketing 41:8

52:18

58:17

marketplace 4:9

Markman 19:10
match 13:19

matches 3:17

48:10

11:25

matter 1:12 6:6

6:7 21:19
52:15 59:17
matters 52:12
mean 5:7,10 7:2

8:11 12:25
13:8 14:9 15:4
17:9,12,12
19:12 20:13
26:7 30:9
32:17 39:1
41:20,22 42:11
49:12

meaning 15:8,12

15:12 20:5

meaningful 7:22

8:1 15:23

means 5:16 6:9

6:11 10:22
18:7 43:8
49:19

meant 5:18,19

mellitus 33:11
34:21 44:25

memorandums

30:21

merely 24:12
metabolite

40:14

metformin 4:6

6:25 24:10
34:11 43:1

metformin-re...

45:22

method 3:17 4:3
24:17 28:9,10
28:11,15 33:10
33:19 34:10,16
34:19 43:21
44:20,24 45:14
49:15 51:2
57:9,16 58:1
methods 29:2
method-of-use

11:22 12:22,23
51:7

mind 11:15 12:2
minimal 15:8
ministerial 9:15
21:8 30:15,17

minute 32:22

41:22

minutes 55:14
misleading

32:19

missed 38:15
missing 32:24
mistake 14:9
mistaken 20:25
mistakes 14:21
moment 53:6
momentarily

36:3

Monday 1:10
monopolies 53:9
monopoly 50:21
months 9:24

12:5

26:4,11,15
27:4,13,17,23
28:5,8 29:18
30:12 31:11,14
32:6,21 33:4
34:7,18,24
35:6,20,24
36:4,7,9,10,15
36:18,20 37:2
37:5,8,16,21
38:2,15 39:1
39:18 40:9,23
41:2,19 42:21
42:23 43:7
44:5 45:8 46:8
46:19 47:1,4
47:12,15,20,25
48:4,17,23
49:11 50:8,24
51:14 52:16,16
52:21 53:20,22
54:9 55:13
56:19 57:6
58:22,25 59:4
59:8,12,14

K

Kagan 11:9

12:16 17:11
22:4,19,21
35:6 37:16,21
38:2 39:18
49:11 50:8
53:20,22 54:9
Kagan's 51:14

52:17

Kennedy 12:17

12:25 13:12
18:9,17 21:12
21:21 27:23

Kennedy's

16:13

kept 11:4
kick 25:19 40:7
kicking 26:17
kicks 52:7
kind 16:19 19:3

20:25 21:12

knew 12:3
knock-out 40:1
know 5:5 15:5

17:3 18:19
28:17 34:24
37:2,2,23 42:4
46:15,16 49:16
49:18 52:8
53:14,17,22,24

knows 14:14

L

label 10:14,17
10:24 13:20
18:3 23:13,14
23:14 24:12
25:18 34:12
45:14,21 51:2
51:12 59:9

labeling 12:19

23:16,17 24:16
26:2,22

Laboratories

1:4 3:5

lacked 13:1
language 3:18

11:20 35:3
40:17,19 46:22
46:22 47:18

large 42:2
largely 51:22
Laughter 8:22
36:11,14 47:9

law 9:14 17:8
19:11 21:20
52:7

laws 13:3 51:10
lawsuit 14:19

47:23

lawyer 31:15
lawyers 29:20
lay 36:23
leaves 8:15
left 4:4
legal 56:14,24
legislation 12:9

legislative 55:8
lettered 46:4
let's 23:19 25:17

42:21,21
limited 4:5
list 40:24 42:3

42:10

listed 8:9,13

39:5,7,24 40:5
40:10,13,21
54:15 58:1
listing 14:22

29:14 38:11,18
38:21 39:2,8
40:16 42:14
listings 55:2
lists 8:12
literal 34:4,6

44:7

litigating 55:4
litigation 20:11
20:22 25:7,10
25:16 26:8,10
27:11 29:8,13
40:4 49:2
51:20 53:12
55:2

little 4:20 28:22

45:25 53:8

long 4:1,4 39:20

46:7 52:2,3
54:21

longer 34:1 51:4
look 6:12 11:16
20:2,19 23:4
32:2 33:9,20
33:21 36:21
44:11,16,21
56:6 57:11
looking 19:23
20:21 34:5
52:11

lose 5:6 24:1
lost 5:12
lot 15:2 29:19
32:18 42:9
lots 35:18,19

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

67

morning 3:4

43:22

multiple 3:12

4:22 9:17

Mylan 53:23
54:10,12,24

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
name 17:14
names 17:16
narrow 38:8
39:16 51:25
NDA 29:1 31:1

33:5

near 13:6 39:4
need 18:7,19
37:5 53:8
55:10 57:20

needs 22:16
negative 30:17
never 8:6 12:22

28:17 35:14
38:13,14,22
47:16 55:7,9
new 6:23 49:2

52:6

nonexistent

15:15

noninfringem...

25:8 27:11

noninfringing

4:8 11:5,6
58:16

nonpatented

52:19

Nordisk 1:7 3:5
normal 48:8
notice 13:8

28:14

noticed 41:23
notices 26:10
notice-and-co...

13:9 56:1
notion 57:3
Novo 1:7 3:5,18
4:5 6:22 7:19

7:22 8:8,17
9:24 10:3,4,22
14:3,6 15:14
25:24 26:5,17
27:2,7 32:17
33:5 42:4
45:17 46:14
53:15 56:8
58:11,13

Novo's 3:15 9:19

15:24 31:8
32:20

number 13:15
37:17,22 38:3
40:10 41:3,10
44:13

numbers 8:5,18

14:1,8,10
41:21 42:12,13

O
O 2:1 3:1
occupy 4:9
oddities 7:7
odds 14:10
31:11,14

offense 5:12
offered 58:4
Official 44:4
Oh 28:5 36:4

59:10

Okay 24:19 33:4
ones 28:12 54:18

54:18,19

one-shot 40:1

on/off 39:24

54:13

54:15

operation 26:25
opine 13:2
opinion 20:25
opinions 4:25
oral 1:12 2:2,5,9
3:7 16:8 27:15

orange 8:10
14:7 16:16
18:11 22:24

27:9,21 39:6
39:25 40:6
42:4,7,8,9
43:24 44:1
53:18 54:16
57:15

order 33:17
ordinary 30:10
ought 50:2
overbroad

43:11 58:14

overly 6:23
overwhelming

40:24

owe 47:22
owed 21:18
owner 29:2

P

P 3:1 45:15
page 2:2 28:2,6

28:7,24,25
29:11 32:23
33:1,9 43:23
43:23 47:12
54:25,25

pages 42:11,11
46:7 52:2 55:8
parade 48:4,13
48:23 49:10

paragraph 10:3

10:15,17,19
11:2 20:22
23:24,24 25:7
25:10,16 26:3
26:8,22 27:10
40:4 59:11
parsing 52:1
part 45:16
particular 5:8

5:16 9:5 20:12
22:10 32:16
37:9

particularly

44:18

parties 20:5

21:16 22:24,25

23:4 25:4 26:9
49:7 53:12
parts 34:12
party 5:13 53:13

passed 11:14

53:21

12:9

passing 50:6
patent 3:14,15

3:20,24 4:1,2,4
4:4 6:14,17,18
7:3,11 8:4,5,9
8:13,17,19
10:7,21 11:3
11:18,18,21,25
12:8,19,21,22
13:3,14,15
14:1,7,12
16:23 18:6
19:4,14,16,24
20:3,6 21:14
22:6 23:2,4
24:14 26:16
27:8,25 28:16
29:2,3,13,20
30:20,22,24
33:8,13,14,17
33:18,23 34:2
34:21,25 35:1
35:15 37:8,17
37:17,19,21
38:1,3,5 39:5,6
39:24 40:5,21
40:25 41:10
42:14 43:8,24
44:1,2,3,9,13
45:4,18,19
46:22 47:5,18
48:11 49:17
50:1,2,21,25
51:1,2,7 54:2
54:15 55:2,21
55:23 56:2,4
56:12 57:5,17
57:18,21 58:1
58:9

patented 10:13

13:21 24:17
43:21 44:20
51:4 57:8

patentholder

37:1

patents 9:15
11:22 12:24
13:6,6 14:16
14:22 19:7,9
19:11,12 21:9
29:21 38:21
42:3,3,7 44:4
patent's 27:11
path 3:13
paths 10:10
percent 4:9
perfectly 22:7
permissible 22:7

permit 25:25

25:22

26:1

Perry 1:22 2:10

27:14,15,17
28:7,9 29:22
30:16 31:13,18
32:11 33:3
34:7,22 35:1,8
35:22 36:2,6,9
36:12,17,20
37:4,7,14,16
37:19,23 38:6
38:17 39:3,19
39:22 40:12
41:1,6,25 43:5
43:16 45:8
46:25 47:3,10
47:24 48:3,14
48:22,25 49:11
50:8,24 51:8
52:21 53:21
54:8,12

persons 44:3
perspective 50:7
Petitioner 23:12
Petitioners 1:5
1:17,21 2:4,8
2:14 3:8 16:10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

68

precedent 4:19

48:7

55:16

Pharma 35:11
Pharmaceutical

1:3 3:4

pharmacists

pharmacology

51:11

45:19

pick 16:13 29:9
piece 8:15 46:2
pieces 8:4 46:5
plaintiff 32:3
please 3:10

16:12 27:18
32:22 35:21
point 16:15,21
17:1 19:3,20
23:7 26:20
28:1 32:24
36:21 42:20
46:8 47:14
49:22 54:5
58:11

points 52:22
policy 31:4,16

52:15

political 50:9
portfolios 42:3
portion 10:16

33:23

position 9:14

17:3,4,4 30:14
30:15 32:12,13
32:14 52:17
53:5

posits 58:13
possible 22:9
26:7 43:15
possibly 8:16
posture 20:19
practical 14:3
15:12 23:11
58:23

practically
15:15 43:8

preamble 18:21

36:25

precisely 25:6

5:7

58:2

present 51:10
presented 26:22
presenting 17:4
presents 52:14
preserve 7:18

15:25

presumably

48:8

presume 23:13
prevails 25:9
prevent 58:8
principal 36:5
principle 18:15

19:4

prior 12:11

private 49:7

probably 4:25

56:18

53:12

18:4

problem 11:13
16:25 19:19
21:15 38:10,18
38:21,22,24
39:2 41:5 42:1
51:20

problems 8:24

49:2 53:4

procedure 41:3
proceed 10:12
10:25 25:11

proceeding

10:17 41:22
process 22:2
35:17 41:9
49:8 53:11

product 24:16

24:17 28:11,12
28:16 57:19

products 51:12

58:16

program 30:20
promoting 48:7

promulgated

44:17,17
proof 32:3
proper 40:15
properly 8:12
14:22 19:2
39:7,24 40:2
53:11 54:15
proposed 49:4
prosecutor 5:11
protect 18:7
protected 29:3
prove 5:12
provide 44:20

44:22,22 57:10
provided 44:23

46:6 56:9

proving 27:11
provision 10:2
17:21 20:14
37:9 38:7,8
39:20 48:6
51:25

provisions 15:7

36:23 49:14
52:3

PTO 30:22
publication

44:21 57:9,16

purely 9:15

Purepac 31:22

30:15

32:11

purpose 13:17

34:4 38:19
39:8 50:4,5
58:6

purposes 14:3
push 53:8
put 14:7 15:23

28:14 31:12,14
45:5,25 46:9
puts 6:14 25:18
Putting 52:11

Q

qualify 8:4
quandary 24:20

25:3,6

question 4:16,17

6:5 7:3 9:4
10:14 13:25
14:13 16:14
17:18 18:9
19:11 20:4
21:19 34:7
35:5 36:13
39:23 49:24
50:25 51:14
52:17 54:2
57:13,14 58:23
58:23 59:7

questions 46:4

54:22

quibbling 6:1
quicker 54:24
quickly 43:15

57:2

quite 5:2 25:2
49:19 50:2
57:3

quote 43:24 57:8
quoted 34:9

quoting 28:24

45:12

45:16

R

R 3:1
radar 42:19
raised 38:10

49:3

raises 41:7
rapidly 29:17
reach 3:13 8:6

46:17

read 7:7,17 8:2
18:21 36:24
37:11 44:18
47:2 48:5,20
49:21,25 50:4
52:10 54:19
56:23 57:6

58:25

reading 7:23
15:25 32:23
54:25 58:7

reads 7:19
real 14:1 21:16
realism 15:24
really 7:11 9:19

11:14 17:18
18:25 27:20
36:10 41:20
42:17 49:19
52:17 54:10
58:6

reason 7:4 19:9

40:16 49:1
58:12

reasonable 21:7
rebuttal 2:12
16:3 55:15

recognize 18:1
recommended

39:11

record 46:10,13

50:10 53:7
58:25 59:6
red 36:6,22
refer 47:11
reference 45:20
refers 57:23
refusal 31:23
reg 35:16
regard 21:1
regardless 55:22
regime 53:13
Register 28:25
43:23 47:12

regs 46:23
regulation 11:17

11:21 12:3
18:6 30:2 35:4
35:6,8 45:9,15
46:3,3,12 56:4
56:13,17 57:5
57:7

regulations

20:15 29:24

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

69

34:17 44:16
48:9 53:6

regulatory 19:5

53:13

rejected 30:7

52:15,22 59:1
rejection 52:25
relate 14:13,13

55:22

relates 28:16
relic 7:24
rely 18:10,24
22:24 23:6
relying 16:17

21:3

remedied 27:9
remedies 7:16

9:4,8,11 15:14
15:15 26:24

remedy 7:17,17
7:19,19,22,24
8:6,17,18 9:1,5
9:9,20,21,23
14:2,4 16:1
32:4 39:17
40:1 41:13
54:1,13 58:18
58:21

remember 8:3

38:7 57:5

repaglinide 3:16
4:6 6:24 34:11
repeated 29:13
reply 28:24
29:12 55:1

report 38:8,19

38:20 39:3

represent 17:5

representing

17:12

46:20

requested 59:9
require 22:5
35:13 43:20
47:17 51:11
required 16:24

43:3 44:21

45:15 46:3
57:8,9

requirement

45:2,2

requirements

39:8 40:7

requires 29:1
requiring 33:17
resisted 53:16
resolve 6:5
resolved 19:4
resources 16:22
respect 9:15
11:22 16:20
44:12,17 51:23
53:5

respects 54:3
Respondents

1:23 2:11
27:16

response 25:24
43:23 54:12

responsible

28:13

result 54:10
review 21:14

29:20 58:15,15

ridiculously

19:17

right 15:13

23:17 24:2,7
25:14 29:9,24
33:2 37:4,8,23
42:4,24 47:7
49:18,19 56:6
57:12 58:11
59:4

ROBERTS 3:3

16:6 20:23
21:2 22:22
27:4,13 28:5,8
29:18 30:12
36:15,18 40:9
40:23 41:2
55:13 59:12,14

role 7:22 8:1
9:15 14:2

15:17,20,24
19:8 21:7

roles 7:18 15:25
route 10:15
routinely 4:21
rule 13:8 56:13
rulemaking
13:9 18:21
22:1 23:5
28:21,22 29:5
31:7 35:9,11
35:14,22 43:18
47:11 50:15,17
56:1

rulemakings

52:13

ruling 48:19

S

S 2:1 3:1 55:11
sake 23:21
sanction 20:16
satisfied 6:22

7:1

satisfy 6:21
saying 8:9 14:5
14:6 15:5 18:6
33:22,22 34:19
34:24 42:23
says 5:5 13:21

18:18,20 21:25
25:7 33:1,4
37:1 44:5,9,11
55:23 56:24
57:5,7,11 59:5

Scalia 5:17,21
5:22,25 6:6
8:20,23 9:7,12
13:25 14:24
15:4,10 35:20
35:24 36:4,7
36:10 39:1
47:12,20,25
56:19

scenario 21:13
scope 12:18,20
12:22,23 22:5

27:24

screen 42:19
second 7:10 19:6

21:13 37:15
39:6,9 45:11
50:19 52:25
55:19

secondary 28:16
section 10:12,13

10:25 11:1
13:18 18:16
25:12 26:3
31:4,24 35:2,7
35:9,10,16,17
35:18 37:12,20
39:7 43:13
51:19 52:25
56:9,20 57:22
57:23 59:1

sections 45:19
see 45:6
seeking 6:21,25

7:14 33:16
58:2

seen 30:11
sees 47:19
sell 24:16 51:3,4

51:5

sends 26:9
sense 17:19
sentence 4:14

44:18,19 45:5
52:1

separate 40:6

46:5

separately 57:22
September 59:6
set 18:8 33:23
38:24 40:6

sets 7:14
shades 54:17
shocked 9:9
short 13:4 18:22
shots 16:20
shows 53:7
side 35:14 49:12

57:12

signed 56:8
signs 46:21
similar 44:19
simple 39:23
simply 6:24

40:10,22 50:21

single 8:15

42:10 46:11,12

situation 4:21
11:10,15 27:2
27:7 40:20
47:22 48:11
54:1,24 58:3
situations 58:8
six 42:4
skipped 33:21
skipping 33:7
slippery 19:21
slope 19:21
small 15:4
solely 39:8
Solicitor 1:18
solving 38:24
somebody 14:8
somewhat 26:8
soon 19:21 41:4
sooner 29:16
sorry 13:8 15:17

15:18 16:4
22:19,20 23:10
28:5 31:13
35:22

sort 16:17
sorts 15:6
Sotomayor

13:23 14:23
15:16,18 16:2
16:5 22:15,18
22:20,22,23
23:1,8,11,19
23:23 24:4,7
24:11,19,25
25:14,17,21,23
26:4,11,15
31:11,14 42:21
43:7 48:4,17
48:23 58:22,25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

70

59:4,8

sounded 32:7
sounds 45:3
source 7:12
speak 17:6,6
23:17 45:23

speaks 5:15
specific 3:14 5:8

54:18

specifically 4:5

56:15 57:3
spend 55:3
sponsored 37:25
sponsors 38:20
stake 52:5
start 18:14

started 23:24

55:18

54:25

starts 19:21
state 22:5
statement 4:12

4:15 27:5

States 1:1,13,20
2:7 16:9 17:6
30:14 47:13
51:11

statute 6:1,3,13
7:8,14,18,20
7:21,23 8:2,2
8:25 9:10,12
12:4,15 14:4
18:13,14 19:8
21:7,9 27:1
31:6 32:22,25
35:19 36:21,24
44:9 47:2
49:13,21,22,25
50:4,6,7,8,12
52:2 58:5,7
statutory 3:12

3:18 14:21
35:3,7 44:7
stay 39:9 40:3

41:8

stays 38:12,13
step 26:23

stipulated 24:5
24:21 59:11

stop 47:7
story 17:10
straight 25:1
strange 5:24
structure 36:21

58:6

stuff 15:2 46:24
submission

11:18,18,21
21:24 31:2
35:16 56:4,13

submit 13:10
14:2 44:12
58:17 59:5

submitted 16:17

35:2,3 37:19
44:10 55:24
56:3,8 59:8,15
59:17

subparts 46:4
subsection

44:10 45:15
49:20 55:24

subsections

subsequent

56:15

35:11

40:15

substance 28:10

substantive
16:23 19:8
21:8,14 30:13

substantively

45:11

substitute 51:11
substituting

substitution

23:15

51:10

successful 38:23
successive 38:11
sue 9:12,18
16:25 49:5

sued 20:9 21:14

21:15 23:25

51:9

sues 10:4
suffice 13:12
sufficient 13:17

26:21

sufficiently

45:23

suggesting

suggests 4:18

12:16

24:17

suing 9:1
suit 21:10,16

26:18 51:13,17
53:24 54:7

summary 46:9
supplies 57:14
supply 58:14
support 44:14
supporting 1:20

2:8 16:10

suppose 4:10

supposed 44:12

10:1,2

57:10

Supreme 1:1,13

4:11,19

sure 25:2 26:6
32:25 58:24

surplusage
15:21,22

switch 39:24

54:15

system 18:8

19:12 58:13

T

T 2:1,1
take 13:19 26:23

42:22 44:17
51:17 53:2
taken 52:24
talking 8:24
11:23 21:12
47:5

talks 7:16 36:25
technical 47:2

tell 24:19 26:11

26:15 43:7
telling 47:6
tells 22:23,25

23:1 44:12,19
46:21

term 30:21
terms 5:15

14:10 17:23
22:8 58:8
terribly 9:8
text 16:16 58:5
thank 16:4,6
27:6,13 47:7
55:12,13,17
59:12,13

Thanks 28:8
theory 16:24
they'd 45:6
thick 42:9
thing 5:24 16:15

43:1 46:12
58:20

things 33:24
40:2 49:5
50:13,13,18

think 4:15 9:22

10:22 12:1
13:1,4 14:5
17:17,25,25
19:19 20:18,18
22:6 27:1,19
32:15 40:18
42:1 43:12
47:10 49:16
53:17 54:9

thinks 30:4 48:2
third 19:15
21:22 31:7
49:20

thought 43:13
thousand 54:17
thousands 4:25

52:3 55:8,8
three 18:22

49:14

thwarted 3:20

Alderson Reporting Company

tie 31:4
tied 45:14
ties 45:18 46:11
time 12:9 36:1,8

36:18 37:24
39:13 43:18

times 30:11
timing 11:17
12:11 26:7

tiny 45:25
tire 14:13
title 56:2
today 29:6
totally 19:17

20:12

trade 35:11
traditional

20:22

transpose 14:10
transposes 14:8
transposition

41:20,25 42:13

treads 14:14
treat 4:3,6
trial 45:21
trials 45:20
tried 36:23
trigger 26:10
true 5:4,4 9:7,19

23:3

truth 7:2
try 19:6
trying 10:24
22:1 58:8

turn 5:13 21:18

28:20 55:19
57:2

turned 50:14
twice 6:17
two 6:18 7:7,16
8:3 10:10 11:5
14:8,10 15:14
15:15 49:14
52:1,22 53:12
55:20 56:6

type 33:11 34:20

44:25

typos 8:19 14:1

14:16

U

ultimately 19:13
unavailable

8:10

unclear 39:15

underlying

49:22

24:13

understand 4:15

6:20 11:11
23:12

understanding

22:4 30:22
undertaking

undisputed

19:22

46:13

unfairly 58:9
unilaterally

50:1

unintended 52:7
United 1:1,13,20

2:7 16:9 17:6
30:14 47:13
unreasonable

unreasonably

20:13

19:17

unusual 41:17
upheld 9:16
uphill 32:2
use 3:15,19,21

4:2,5 5:9,19,23
5:23 6:10,14
6:16,23,24,24
7:4,12,12 9:13
9:19,25 10:6
10:13 11:1,7
11:12,24 12:9
12:12,14,21
13:10,14,18,19
13:21 16:14
18:10 19:17,22
20:11,20,21

21:3,25 22:6,7
22:12,13 23:6
24:10,12,18
25:9,18 27:24
28:3,4,9,10,11
28:13,15,18
29:2,20,24,25
30:1,4,4,6 31:5
31:8,24 32:10
32:20 33:7,9,9
33:12,13,22,24
34:2,8,10,13
34:16 36:25
37:1,7 38:25
40:7 41:16
42:6,11,17,19
42:24,24,25
43:9,19,21,24
44:13,20 45:14
48:9,15 50:19
50:19,19,22
51:2,18 52:19
52:19,20,23
53:1 54:16
55:2,9,21 57:9
57:14,15,16,17
57:17,21 58:1
58:1,14,19
useful 47:16
uses 3:12,14 4:8
4:22 6:18 9:1
11:5,6 57:15

usual 40:12 53:3
U-275 28:4,9
U-278 28:10,15
U-279 28:11
U-530 28:3

V
v 1:6 3:5
vague 49:14
valid 18:19
various 31:19

36:23

view 19:20

26:20 37:16
49:23 54:5

Official

viii 10:12,13,25

11:1 13:18
18:16 25:12
31:4,24 35:17
43:13 51:19
53:1 57:24
59:1

violation 20:14
volume 55:19
volumes 5:15

W
wait 16:2
want 10:23 11:7

11:7 13:2
25:11 26:16
33:16 35:25
37:13 44:6
48:21 49:7
51:4 55:20
58:13

wanted 53:25

54:23

wants 25:18

42:18 51:3,5

Washington 1:9

1:19,22

wasn't 7:1 10:2

11:11 40:15
42:18

waste 36:7
way 4:16,17

5:13 7:7 8:23
10:20 13:17
20:7 25:15
28:24 30:9,12
30:18 34:14
38:4 42:1,7
45:24 48:6,20
49:25 52:1
55:10

ways 5:9 6:4

17:9

went 10:15
16:16 25:1
32:15 44:2
55:25

We'll 3:3
we're 11:23

17:18,19 21:12
22:1 36:25
49:6 51:25,25
we've 6:17 34:5

whatsoever

40:19

15:21

win 21:10 32:16
winning 31:15
won 31:21,25
word 5:9,9 7:21

8:1 15:6,8
39:19 41:17
55:7

words 33:7,20
33:21,21 34:4
34:6,18 37:11
37:13 44:7
work 18:25

39:19,21 48:12
48:15 58:13
working 53:11
works 18:10

49:15

world 8:25

14:17,20 28:14

worlds 42:16
worse 54:4
wouldn't 11:16

18:3

42:6

write 11:12 22:7

writes 19:16
writing 7:20

12:17,18,19,20
16:14 20:14
27:24 28:13,18

written 6:2,5
20:12 34:17

wrong 30:4

32:17,19 40:11
43:2,3 45:7
46:14

wrote 6:22

16:16 28:13

71

42:19 54:20

X

x 1:2,8

Y

years 31:21

38:10 55:4,4

0

08 59:1

1
10 31:20
10-844 1:5 3:4
10:05 1:14 3:2
11:06 59:16
12 33:9
127a 57:6
16 2:7
177 24:6
18 38:10
180-day 41:8,11
19 46:3
19a 28:24
1984 3:11
1994 43:17

2

2 33:11 44:25
20 59:11
2003 11:11,19

11:21 12:12,14
12:15 16:15
18:2,20 21:25
23:5 28:20
38:14 52:2
56:25,25

2007 35:14,22
47:11 56:22

2010 23:13 59:6
2011 1:10
2018 11:4
21,268 47:12
2150 8:13
24a 29:11 54:25
26 46:5
27 2:11

Alderson Reporting Company

28J 56:14
3

3 2:4 32:23 45:1
3-1/2 9:24
30-month 38:11

38:13 39:9
40:3

314.53 56:4
314.53(p)and

35:4

355(b) 56:10
36,682 28:25

4

4 25:19 45:17
55:14 59:9

4.2a 45:13
4.2b 45:12 46:6

57:5,12
415 52:2
43 13:15
484 55:19,25
487 57:2
49 51:10
5

5 1:10
50,346 43:23
505 35:2,10,18
37:20 56:13
57:1

505(b) 39:7 45:9

56:10

505(b)(2) 57:24
522 28:2,7
55 2:14
59 43:23
6
68 28:25
7

70 4:9
701 35:9,16

45:10
72 47:12
777 59:11

Official

72

8
812 55:11

Alderson Reporting Company

