Official

1

       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
PPL MONTANA, LLC,                 :
            Petitioner            :  No. 10-218
       v.                         :
MONTANA.                          :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
                       Washington, D.C.
                       Wednesday, December 7, 2011

              The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 11:08 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
   Petitioner.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
   Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for
   United States, as amicus curiae, supporting
   Petitioner.
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for
   Respondent.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

2

                     C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                  PAGE
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                      3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
   On behalf of the United States,                  18
   as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Respondent                      28
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.
   On behalf of the Petitioner                      57

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

3

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

                  P R O C E E D I N G S
                                            (11:08 a.m.)
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We'll hear argument
next today in Case 10-218, PPL Montana v. Montana.
            Mr. Clement.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT
              ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
            MR. CLEMENT:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            The State's claim to back rent here is truly
remarkable.  When these dams were built back in the day,
PPL's predecessors, Petitioner's predecessors, secured
all the necessary property rights and easements.  As
part of that process, particularly for the dams that
created reservoirs, there was an elaborate process of
getting flood easements and, in many cases, paying
substantial amounts of money.  In that process, nothing
was hidden; it was open and notorious.  Indeed, the
State assisted by lending the utilities its eminent
domain power to deal with holdouts.
            But now, a hundred years later, the State
comes in with a holdout claim of its own and suggests
that it's entitled to massive compensation based on the
small strip of riverbed that lies underneath these
flooded reservoirs and the dams.  The Montana Supreme

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

4

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Court allowed that claim to succeed to the tune of tens
of millions of dollars of back rent.  Now, it did --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Well, is your point that
there should be a Federal rule of laches or estoppel, or
are you just building up to the fact that this is
traditional, well-recognized doctrine and there's been
-- and there's been a sudden change?
            MR. CLEMENT:  That's exactly where I was
going, Justice Kennedy.  I was suggesting that the
Montana Supreme Court could only approve this result,
which clearly did unsettle settled expectations, by
deviating from well-settled principles of Federal
navigability law.
            Now, the mistakes were a little bit
different for each of the rivers at issue.  As to the
Clark Fork and the Upper Missouri, the critical error I
believe with the Montana Supreme Court decision was its
failure to focus on the river segments that are directly
at issue and instead focus on the river as a whole.
            With the Madison, the errors are different,
because, as the Madison, there's no evidence that any
stretch of that river was navigable at statehood.  So,
there the problem was principally that the court relied
on modern-day evidence of recreational use to substitute
for true historic evidence of commercial navigation at

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

5

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

statehood.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  On the issue of whether we
should look to the segments or to the river as a whole,
what authorities can we consult?  You rely heavily on
U.S. v. Utah, and that certainly is a relevant
precedent; but there's disagreement about what it means,
and the only authority that I see that U.S. v. Utah
cited was The Montello, which seems to cite nothing
whatsoever.  So, where do we -- is that the end of the
trail?  Is there anyplace else we can look?
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, I -- I mean, it's close
to the end of the trail.  I mean, you can go back to The
Daniel Ball, but that's not going to help you any more
than The Montello.  I think, though, that the critical
cases really are Utah, but I also think there are other
cases that this Court has had.  Oklahoma v. Texas would
be an example where this Court has looked at a
discernible segment of a river.  Brewer-Elliott is
another one.
            And I think the starting point for the
Court's analysis in every one of these cases has been to
look at the segment of the river that's at issue, that
has been put at issue.  Now, if you have a sovereignty
battle between the State and the Federal Government, a
lot of times it's the segment of the river within a

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

6

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

State, or in Brewer-Elliott it was the segment of the
river adjacent to an Indian reservation.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Well, all of this, I take
it, derives from the rule that pre-exists -- pre-existed
the adoption of the Constitution, that the sovereign
owned the navigable rivers within its borders.  Is there
some body of common law that addresses this, that would
shed some light on whether that means the whole river or
it means segments?
            MR. CLEMENT:  There really isn't,
Justice Alito, because we get our common law from
England.  In England, actually, the common law was
different.  At England, the navigable waters ended at
the ebb and flow of the tide.  So, every internal stream
within Great Britain was viewed as nonnavigable, and the
property belonged to the riparians.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  So, what -- what is the
origin of the rule that the original 13 States owned the
navigable rivers or parts of the rivers but not the
parts that weren't.  That was some feature of American
colonial law?
            MR. CLEMENT:  Sure.  I mean, it was -- it
was adopted as part of -- the sort of -- just the idea
of creating the sovereign republic of the United States.
We borrowed our common law.  I think initially nobody

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

7

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

focused on these navigable segments.
            And it's important to recognize this issue
really doesn't even arise in the eastern United States,
because until about 1850 this idea that States could own
the riverbeds if they were nonnavigable never really
occurred to anyone.  So, in most of the eastern States
as a matter of State law, whether a river is navigable
or nonnavigable, the riparian owns to the middle of the
streambed.
            So, after 1851, this Court recognizes --
makes clear to the States that they actually have a
choice.  And so, the States that come into the Union
after 1851, many of them, including Montana, adopt the
rule that, well, unless these -- if these streams are
nonnavigable, then we take the river stream.  And so,
that's where the question comes up.
            So, maybe the reason there isn't a great
deal of precedent on this is explained by the fact that
this is an issue that largely arises in the western
United States.  But that's why I think it's such a
mistake to kind of look a gift horse in the mouth, so to
speak, and not focus on Utah, because Utah is a
situation that seems irreconcilable with the Montana
Supreme Court decision and the State's basic theory,
because there the special master and this Court

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

8

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

recognize a nonnavigable segment right in the middle of
two navigable portions of stream.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Could you define "de
minimis" for me?
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, I -- I'm -- I'm happy to
try, but I think -- I'm not going to give you --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  If we can't --
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, here -- I'm not going
to --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- what's the guidance
or limit that we set for States?
            MR. CLEMENT:  I've thought about this a lot,
Justice Sotomayor, and I'm not here to give you a sound
bite that's a bright-line definition of "de minimis."  I
think "de minimis" almost by its nature takes its -- its
meaning from the context of the inquiry.  But let me --
let me offer at least three guideposts that I think are
helpful.
            One, as a practical matter, I think this
Court can look to its own cases dealing with islands in
navigable stream, and those cases are on page 17 of the
Government's brief.  And this Court's cases say, if
there's a small island in navigable stream, under an
acre, of negligible value, we basically ignore it.
Later cases, though, came along and dealt with islands

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

9

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

that were much larger, and the Court analyzed those
separately from the navigable stream and said the United
States actually retains ownership to the larger islands,
and they don't go.  So, that's one place to look.
            The second place to look, I think, is also a
practical judgment based on the nature of the lawsuit.
And here the State itself has come in and identified
stretches of riverbed that they think are significant
enough to generate $50 million in back rent.  And I
think they, having identified those riverbed stretches
as being worth $50 million, are hard pressed to then
turn around and say, oh, but they're de minimis, just
ignore them.
            The third rule I would point to is that I
think topography has something of a role to play here.
If you look at the special master's report in Utah or
some of the other cases that have decided the point at
which the navigability stops, they've pointed to
features of the river as defining a discernible segment
like a tributary coming in or the geology of the -- of
the bed over which the river runs.  If it shifts from
kind of a silty loam to hard rock in a canyon, that's
something that you can point to.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I know you've told me
that you think Montello is not pertinent because it

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

10

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

involved a different issue.  But assuming that it were
pertinent, because I'm not quite sure how its discussion
doesn't fit the needs here, one of the factors you
haven't mentioned in terms of de minimis is the portage
and its use with respect to commerce.  And by that I
mean, it appeared to me in Montello, what the Court was
saying was the history of use of this river showed that
these obstructions didn't stop the flow of commerce,
that what people did was, it appeared, some extreme
things.  They got off -- they got their goods off one
boat, walked it a certain distance or drove it by wagon
another distance, and then put it on another boat or the
same boat that they had lessened the load on and moved
it over.  And so, it doesn't talk about the distance of
that portage; it talks about the impact on commerce.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Right.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  And so, why isn't that a
factor in the de minimis issue?
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, I mean --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  If there were a history
here.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Sure, but, Justice Sotomayor,
I think -- I mean, there are sort of two portages that
are floating around in The Montello, and I think it's
important to distinguish between the two.  There's kind

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

11

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

of the classic overland portage between the Fox River
and the Wisconsin River.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  There was a canal in
there, wasn't there?
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, afterwards.  But
originally that was an overland portage.  And so, that's
really not at issue, but that's kind of the -- you know,
the classic portage I have in mind is an overland
portage.
            Now, they're also talking about the extreme
efforts, and you could call them portages.  I don't
think you need to.  But there's also talk about the
extreme efforts to enable navigation on the Fox before
improvement.
            But that's nothing like what's at issue here
because those were efforts basically to use the riverbed
to -- and they had to do some extraordinary things:  get
ox to pull the boat, lift them up over some rocks.  But
they never really left the bed of the river there.
Where they left the bed of the river was the portage
over to the Wisconsin.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Well, in Montello, they
took the cargo off some boats --
            MR. CLEMENT:  Oh, absolutely.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- and moved it overland

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

12

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

to another spot before they put it back on a boat.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Sure, but my understanding of
what was going on there -- and maybe I misunderstood it,
but I understand what they're talking about there is a
portage where you take the cargo out of the boat in
order to lighten the draft of the boat so it's not
sitting as deeply in the river, and that allows the
lighter boat to be carried over the --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  We can both look at the
opinion, but I think there is one spot where the Court
says that in some areas they had to change boats.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well -- and that may be, but,
I mean, again, I don't think we're talking about
anything like the distances that we're talking here, and
I also --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I don't disagree with
you, but I -- what I'm asking is, if we had a history of
navigation of cargo that went to the beginning of one of
these rivers -- and I'm not a sailor, so my terms -- the
cargo is taken off and driven by wagon or some other
mode to another spot and picked up again.  Is that a
different situation than one where that doesn't happen?
That because this -- this length of portage is so long
that it is both economically and physically impossible
to transport cargo in that way.  Is that a different

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

13

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

case for the question of navigability?
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, sure, because these are
all matters of degree, and those would be two different
cases.  But here's what I would point you to, which is,
if at the point that you have to take the cargo off of
the boats, and then you then have to leave the channel,
you don't just do a little cut around some de minimus
amount, but you leave the channel and go overland, at
that point, I think, that portage demonstrates the
non-navigability of the bypassed stretch.  And then I
think --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, maybe it
demonstrates the non-navigability of the particular
stretch, but we would still speak of the transfer of
commerce as being along the river.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, I don't --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  The sort of case --
the analogy I was thinking of is if I say I fly from
Washington to Tokyo; and someone says, no, you didn't,
you flew to San Francisco, then you walked however many
yards from one gate to another, and then you flew to
Tokyo.  And I would say, well, yes, there's a gap there
when I -- you know, part of the distance where I wasn't
flying, but people would still say you flew from D.C. to
Tokyo.  Now, why isn't this just like that, that the

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

14

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

commercial path, the commercial waterway people think of
as the Missouri?  And, yes, occasionally you've got to
get out, and, you know, we can debate how long the
portage is, but it doesn't interrupt the notion that
that whole pathway would qualify as a navigable
waterway.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, two things,
Mr. Chief Justice.  One is I do want to make clear that
we very much dispute factually that there ever was this
kind of commercial portage over the Great Falls.  And
the really -- you know, there's very little evidence for
the record.  The State's own evidence identifies Fort
Benton 30 miles below the Great Falls as the head of
navigation on the Missouri.  So, there is very much a
factual issue here.
            But to answer the legal question you're
asking, first of all, I'm not sure I would have the same
instinct about the common parlance if you had to go from
JFK to LaGuardia in a cab.  And I'm even less sure that
you would have the same notion if you had to drive from
San Francisco to LA to switch planes.  And I think the
distance here really does matter.  And I would submit
the way you think about this, the way I would think
about this, is that the very need to bypass, especially
a substantial bypass where you leave the river channel,

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

15

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

is evidence that that part of the channel, that part of
the river, is nonnavigable.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  I don't see why --
            MR. CLEMENT:  And then the question that's
left is whether that's de minimis.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  I don't see why portage is
relevant at all.  What's the basis for the rule that the
sovereign owns the navigable rivers?  I assume it's
because they are viewed -- they were viewed as highways
for transportation and commerce.  And to the extent that
there's an obstruction that cannot be traversed by a
boat, then there isn't going to be any commerce or
transportation along that area.
            Now, there might be an argument that the
sovereign should own the land next to the river so that
you could portage around it, but what -- what would be
the justification for saying the sovereign owns the
portion of the river that can't be traversed at all by
boat?  I just don't understand it.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, I'm with you on that,
Justice Alito, and I think, you know, logically, if you
think what's the highway of commerce here, if there
really was this 18-mile overland portage route, that
would be the highway of commerce, but the 17-mile
bypassed stretch of the Missouri and the Great Falls

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

16

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Reach would not be a highway of commerce.  And I think
that gets back to the expectations of the property owner
that ultimately underlie these title questions.
            I mean, if you have boats going by a river
in your backyard, I mean, you have -- you're on sort of
notice that you don't own the riverbed.  But if you're
in a part of the river that's -- that's so unnavigable
that it has to be bypassed and you've never seen a boat
in your experience ever, then I think you have very
different expectations, and your expectations would be
the same as somebody who --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Seventeen miles is very
long.
            MR. CLEMENT:  It is --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I think the Thompson is
only 2.8.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  That's really close to
Montello, where it talked about, about 2 miles for some
portage areas.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, with respect, if I could
take both points, I mean, you're absolutely right.
Seventeen miles is very long.  I mean, for the New
Yorkers, you know, the East River is 16 miles long, the
whole river.  The Anacostia River is 8-1/2 miles long.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

17

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

So, this bypass stretch --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  But I'm not a
Midwesterner, and rivers of 200 miles are normal there,
I understand.
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, these -- this is still a
big stretch and I do think, like I said, longer than
some entire rivers.  But the Thompson Falls -- I mean,
the 2 miles of the Thompson Fall, I don't know exactly
where that number comes from.  It's kind of an
artificiality.  I mean, there -- again, the State's own
evidence, look at JA 57, says that navigation stopped at
Thompson Falls.  There wasn't a portage around.
            But the other point is I would also ask you
to look at the 1910 court decree because, as I said at
the outset, you know, these companies didn't just put
these dams up overnight as, you know, kind of -- as a
lark.  They went through elaborate efforts to secure the
property rights.  That's what generated that 1910 court
decree about the Clark Fork River.
            The Clark Fork River court decree in 1910
addresses a stretch of river specifically that's not
just the falls but those 6 miles of the reservoir that's
created.  And the court holds that that entire region
and, indeed, the entire Clark Fork in Sanders County is
nonnavigable.  So, the stretches that are nonnavigable

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

18

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

are much longer than 2 miles.
            If I may reserve my time.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Kneedler.
           ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
    ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
               SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
            The Montana Supreme Court committed three
basic errors with respect to all three rivers that
require a remand for further proceedings to actually
weigh and make factual findings concerning the evidence
of the -- of the relevant reaches of the river for
purposes of navigability for title.  We're not talking
about navigability for interstate transportation or
admiralty or regulatory jurisdiction under the Rivers
and Harbors Act or the Clean Water Act.  We're talking
about navigability for title.
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  And why does that make a
difference, Mr. Kneedler?  Why do you think that there
are separate tests for title than for regulatory
authority?
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, in The Montello, for
example, the question was whether there was admiralty or

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

19

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

regulatory jurisdiction over the use of vessels on the
-- on the upper reaches of the river, and that depended,
in the Court's view, on whether that stretch was part of
an interstate or international highway of commerce.  And
so, it would make sense to look at the whole river in
determining whether there's a highway, and maybe in
deciding whether there's a highway, you would look to a
bypassed stretch.  You would look at the highway, the
land highway, to decide whether it's useful in
interstate commerce.
            For title purposes, though, the question is,
what happens to the stretch of the river right in front
of the riparian owner's land?  As Mr. Clement said, that
reflects the expectations of the property owner; that if
there are no ships or boats going back and forth, that
that property is -- adheres to the riparian land more.
I also think it pertains to the control or use of the
beds of the rivers themselves.  If the river --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  I think, though, if
you start drawing these lines, they become very
difficult, in some rivers anyway, to -- to apply.  I'm
sure there are seasonable fluctuations.  They may be
navigable in some seasons, but not in others.  The line
at which you pass from navigability to non-navigability
may be difficult to ascertain.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

20

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            It seems to me, once you start chopping the
highway of commerce up, it does create all those
difficulties.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, first of all, we're
not -- we're not talking about chopping the river up
into narrow slices.  I mean, I think there has to be a
discernible and substantial segment of the river.
Often -- often, it will be self-evident from the
topographical features of the area.  Are there -- are
there major falls and rapids over an extended period of
time?
            But also, the points you're raising are -- I
think are inherent, because in deciding where
navigability stops under any test or in any
circumstance, you could have the difficulties that you
have described.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  So, what's de minimis?
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, I think --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Could 2.8 be de minimis
in one situation and not, and how do we tell courts
below --
            MR. KNEEDLER:  I think it -- I think it may
well be.  I think it -- I think a -- an important -- I
agree with the points that Mr. Clement made as
guideposts.  I think another one -- and this pertains

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

21

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

to --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  If there's no falls but
there are riparian waters that don't permit navigability
over 2.8, then that's still navigable?  I'm not sure --
            MR. KNEEDLER:  No, I -- I think it has to be
-- I'm speaking of a situation where the -- where the
river is not navigable in fact.  And that's the test,
navigable in fact, not navigable in law.  So, if a -- if
a boat cannot pass in front of the riparian land, then
that would be nonnavigable.  I agree that --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And it shouldn't matter
whether it's 2.8 miles or 1 mile, right?
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, I --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I mean, if the land is
nonnavigable -- if the river at that point is
nonnavigable, it's nonnavigable.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  For title purposes, yes.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's what we're talking
about --
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Yes.  And, you know, I don't
want to --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- the title purpose.  I
don't see why there ought to be any de minimis
exception.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, I -- I think at some --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

22

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

if you -- if you consider part of the -- part of what's
going on here is who controls the riverbed, I think it
would be unworkable to have a passage or a portion of a
river where you had 20 -- 10-foot strips across the
river that are riparian owner-owned, and the State owned
everything else, or if you had stripes across a river.
So, I think -- I think the test also has to take into
account --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But how would the boat get
up there?  Does it just jump over the 10 feet?
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, in The Montello, the --
there is -- there is evidence that the boat was lifted
by -- men got out of the boat and lifted the boat up
over the falls.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Okay.  Then that would
work.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Pardon me?
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Then that would work.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  In that situation, but if you
have a long stretch of -- of river where that was not
practicable, then you --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  You can't lift a boat over
Niagara Falls.  And I -- and I read somewhere that -- I
hope I'm wrong, but I have a feeling I read somewhere
that the land under Niagara Falls has long been

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

23

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

considered to be navigable, and, therefore, it's owned
by the United States.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  It's an international
boundary.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  It's owned by the State.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  It's owned by the State.
Oh, you mean the navigable -- I get mixed up in that.
The --
            MR. KNEEDLER:  The reply brief I think
describes --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  The navigable ones are
owned by the State.  Okay.  Everybody's thought the land
under Niagara Falls is owned by the State.  Oh, dear,
because that sort of wrecks our nice theory that all the
steps, all the little bits of it that are non -- that
are --
            MR. KNEEDLER:  That's not an -- I think
that's not an extended strip in the way that -- the way
that we're discussing here.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  Now we have to
define what's an extended strip.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, if I -- I think --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I think -- I thought it's
also an international boundary --
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Yes, and that --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

24

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SCALIA:  -- as to which there is a
different rule.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Yes, and the -- or --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.  So, how much are we
wrecking if we just say, look, the bit that's
nonnavigable is different from the bit that's navigable?
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Period.  Doesn't matter if
it's 5 feet of land or not.  What are we wrecking?
            MR. KNEEDLER:  I think it does matter
whether it's 5 feet, because the -- because an important
point here is that -- who can make sensible use or
control the relevant stretch of the river.  If it's 5
feet or 10 feet and you had strips that stayed
private --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  A quick question which you
could probably answer just by saying we decided not to.
But I was somewhat curious.  It's really the United
States v. Montana in this, who owns the land, and it's a
question of Federal law.  It's going to be highly
factual no matter what this happens.  Made for this
Court's original jurisdiction.  And -- and normally in
original jurisdiction, we appoint a master, it's worked
out, and we review the master's report.
            We can't do that here because it's a case --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

25

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

why didn't you go into, or why couldn't you go into, a
quiet title action in Federal court?
            MR. KNEEDLER:  We could, and we have not
given consideration to that, but that might be -- that
might be a possibility.  The United States is not a
party to this case and couldn't be -- and couldn't be
bound by the judgment.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Could it have intervened
somehow, because the -- the United States has come here
rather reluctantly, as you recommended against granting
cert in this case.  When this was in the Montana courts
and it was a question of what is the Federal law,
because Federal law is going to control -- everybody
agrees that -- could the United States have come into
the proceedings in the Montana State court?
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Ordinarily, the United States
would not intervene in a State court proceeding, or if
it did, it would remove the case to Federal court.  So,
that -- that would be -- that would be a -- an
additional consideration as to whether to get into this
suit.  The United States would typically bring its own
quiet title action in -- in Federal court.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Your answer a moment
ago gives me pause.  You said the United States would
not be bound by this litigation but could bring its own

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

26

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

quiet title action.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, we would be bound by
this Court's decision, obviously.  But I was just
speaking of the law of -- the law of judgments.  And if
this Court remands back to the trial court with general
directions but doesn't adjudicate particular stretches
definitively, then, you know, I think we -- that's the
situation that we would -- that we would be in.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And if we -- if it were
remanded, the United States would still stay out of it
because it's going to be in the State --
            MR. KNEEDLER:  I assume so.  Obviously, that
would be a -- that would be a further consideration.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Am I to take that "de
minimis" to you means small enough so that they get the
boat physically over the portage?
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Physically --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Whether they carry it --
            MR. KNEEDLER:  No, I think if they --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- drag it.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  I think if they can take it
through the river, it's not an interruption at all.  But
if -- if you have -- if you have something that can't be
transversed by a boat at all and it's long enough that
it could sensibly be thought of as a -- as a separate

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

27

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

parcel adhering to the -- to the riparian land, that
would be --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Go back to carrying
their boat on their shoulders, which apparently in The
Montello they did.  What's the answer to --
            MR. KNEEDLER:  They didn't carry the boat
out of the river.  These were Durham boats that were
70-feet long and -- and weighed quite a bit.  Now, maybe
there were small canoes that could have been done.  I --
I think a small portage -- again, I don't think it's the
length of the portage; I think it's the interruption of
the -- of the navigable portion of the river that --
that is -- that is relevant, and if it's large enough to
constitute a -- a sensible administrable parcel, that
that should be enough.
            I did want to take one moment to discuss the
Madison River because there, as Mr. Clement discussed,
the considerations are somewhat different.
            I mean, first of all, the court made a
similar mistake there by discussing the river as a whole
and a log float in the middle stretch of the river, but
not focusing on the relevant stretches where the dams
are located.  But it also put a lot of emphasis on
current recreational use by drift boats and whatnot,
without a proper foundation to determine whether that

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

28

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

was relevant for title purposes at statehood, because
the relevant question is whether whatever boats are used
now are ones that would have been used as -- this is the
language from The Daniel Ball -- as "the customary modes
of travel and transportation" at the -- at the time of
statehood.  It had to be general --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  It's kind of odd.
Maybe this is -- maybe this is Justice Alito's earlier
question.  It's kind of odd that the more navigable the
river is, the more claim the State has.  The less
navigable -- where you're talking about sports boats and
drift fishing -- then it's Federal.
            MR. KNEEDLER:  Well, that's -- that's a
product of the -- of the equal footing doctrine.  And
the Court has long said that the State gets the beds of
navigable waters.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Garre.
            ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE
               ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT
            MR. GARRE:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
            This case is about who owns the riverbeds
underlying the rivers at issue.  It's not about flood
lands; it's about the riverbeds.  And under this Court's

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

29

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

precedents, it's settled that title to the riverbeds
conveyed to the State under the Constitution if they are
navigable.
            It's been understood in Montana for more
than a century that these rivers are navigable.  The
rivers were meandered as navigable.  PPL's deeds -- and
this is at page 172 of the appendix to the opposition
brief -- specifically exclude the riverbeds.  The test
for navigability that this Court has applied for
140 years, going back to The Montello and The Daniel
Ball, is whether the river served as a continuous
highway of commerce.
            In The Montello, the Court recognized the
fact that few of the nation's great rivers did not
include some, quote, "serious interruptions to
uninterrupted navigation."  And the -- and the Court's
answer to that geographic fact was not to say then let's
carve out the interruptions and say those aren't
navigable.  The Court's answer was to say unbroken
navigation is not required to establish navigability.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Under your theory, if
there's a fall like this of 17 miles, and a train is
50 miles away and traverses that 17 miles, that
portage --
            MR. GARRE:  Under this Court's precedents --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

30

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  -- is good enough to
make that area navigable?
            MR. GARRE:  -- you have to show that the
commerce traveled along the river under the customary
modes of trade and travel.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Outside of your fur
traders and your gold miners, has that happened in any
other situation -- your alleged gold miners and fur
traders?  Has that happened on -- on the -- in the Great
Falls?
            MR. GARRE:  If you take the Great Falls, the
history of portage from 1864 to 1868 was lively commerce
of millions of dollars, in today's value, billions of
dollars of gold, from Helena to Fort Benton back east.
This is covered in detail by the Solicitor General
briefs that we've appended here.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Could you -- could you
do me a favor and you tell me again -- I'm having real
trouble with the competing evidence in this case with
respect to every one of the three areas in dispute, and
I have some serious questions about whether the court
properly granted summary judgment.  Your brief seems to
suggest that I can't do -- we can't do anything about
that because it wasn't a part of the question presented.
            MR. GARRE:  I --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

31

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Your adversary says that
it's a fair question if we determine there's an illegal
approach -- error in the legal approach of the court
below.  I'm assuming that also means on their weighing
of evidentiary matters.  So, why shouldn't we address
the summary judgment issue?
            MR. GARRE:  The question presented is
whether the Montana Supreme Court or whether a court --
a court -- what the constitutional test would be for a
court in this situation.  It's not even limited to the
Montana Supreme Court here.  It presents a legal
question.
            With respect to summary judgment, the
problem for PPL is not that it didn't present enough
paper; the problem is, is it litigated the case under a
wrong legal theory.  It litigated the case that the --
that the Missouri, for example, was not navigable
because you couldn't take a boat down the falls.  This
Court's precedents for more than 140 years asked the
question of whether the river served as a continuous
highway of commerce.  We presented evidence,
summarized --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  For what purpose?  Were
they -- were they -- were we answering the question for
the same purpose, or were we asking it for purposes of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

32

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

whether Federal regulation could extend to the whole
river?  For that purpose, it's easy to say if the whole
river is, you know, used for commerce, the Federal
Government can regulate even those portions of the river
that are nonnavigable, that have -- but that have to be
portaged around.  But that's a different question from
who -- who owns title to the -- to the bed under the
portions that have to be portaged.
            MR. GARRE:  Your Honor, PPL recognizes that
The Daniel Ball supplies the test for navigability for
title.  This Court recognized that in the Utah case, the
vanguard title case that they hold out.  So, the only
question is, did The Montello apply The Daniel Ball test
or did it apply something else?  And the first paragraph
of the Court's decision in The Montello said it applied
The Daniel Ball test.
            Courts -- this Court and lower courts for
more than a century have understood The Daniel Ball and
The Montello to supply the test for navigability of
title.  What they're asking this Court to do is upend
more than 140 years of precedent.  And the amicus brief
filed by the States in this case gives -- gives the
Court a sense of the disruption that this would cause.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  What do -- what do you
understand to be the reason for the rule that the States

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

33

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

own the navigable rivers?
            MR. GARRE:  The reason for the rule was the
public trust doctrine which -- which sought to keep
these rivers free for the public to use for navigation,
for fishing, and for other uses.  And this court's
precedents --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  What do fishing and
navigation have to do with -- for -- what does fishing
have to do with navigability?
            MR. GARRE:  Well, it gets back to the -- the
public trust doctrine, Your Honor.  Fishing doesn't
have -- fishing is a purpose of the public trust
doctrine, which is why it was understood --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Let me put it this way:
Why -- why should -- why does the State own a navigable
river but not a nonnavigable river?
            MR. GARRE:  Because the navigable rivers
were the arteries of commerce in this country, and at
the time of the founding, it was understood -- and this
gets to the core issue of federalism in this case --
that the States ought to be the ones that control the
navigable rivers --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  Yes, and if that's the
reason --
            MR. GARRE:  -- not the Federal Government.

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

34

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            JUSTICE ALITO:  If that's the reason for the
rule, than what is the justification for State ownership
of a portion of the river that is not navigable?
            MR. GARRE:  I think this gets back to the
question of whether you can just chop up the rivers into
navigable and nonnavigable bits.  And we're talking --
this Court, Justice O'Connor observed in her dissent in
the Phillips Petroleum case that navigability wasn't
decided inch by inch.  What the other side is asking you
to adopt here is a test of navigability that's at least
mile by mile, if not acre by acre, which is completely
different than this Court has ever assessed
navigability.
            JUSTICE ALITO:  The rule that you're arguing
for might be an established rule that we should follow,
but as a matter of theory, I don't understand what the
justification is for State ownership of a nonnavigable
portion of the river if the reason for the underlying
rule is so that people will not put up obstructions on
the river so that they -- it can be maintained as an --
as an avenue of commerce.  I can see that you -- why the
State would own that, because otherwise riparian owners
could put up fences and obstructions and charge tolls
and -- and that sort of thing.  But if it's not
navigable, I don't see what it has to do with -- with

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

35

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

commerce or transportation.
            MR. GARRE:  What -- what the Framers were
concerned about -- and this is also reflected in the
Northwest Ordinance 2 -- was ensuring that the navigable
rivers, the major arteries of commerce in this country,
remained open.  And so, they -- they applied a much
more -- much broader conception of navigability than
is suggested --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But -- but they're closed
where they're -- they're impassable for ships anyway.
They're closed.  What do you mean, remain open?
            MR. GARRE:  And so, that was the argument --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You've -- you've got falls.
You got waterfalls.  You got rapids.  What does it mean
to -- to be sure that that river remains open to
commerce?  Commerce is impossible over it.
            MR. GARRE:  And so, that was the argument
that the district court adopted in The Montello case,
and this Court emphatically rejected it.  And by the
way, the portage in The Montello case was 5 miles long.
That's reflected in the -- the record in that case
before this Court.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Garre, what is -- you
say that you're not taking just -- you look at the whole
river as a whole.  You're saying that, no, that isn't

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

36

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

your position?
            MR. GARRE:  No, it's not.
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  And it is also not inch
by inch.  So, what's -- when is segmentation
appropriate?
            MR. GARRE:  I think the relevant stretch or
segmentation is really a litigation term.  Our position
is this Court's test:  continuous highway of commerce.
You would take the part of the river at issue in a case,
take that part and look -- ask the question, was that
part of a continuous highway of commerce or not?
            So, if you found yourself in Cataract Canyon
in the Utah case, you'd ask yourself that question, and
you would say, no, this is not part of a continuous
highway of commerce, because no one argued either that
the canyon was portaged or that goods were traveling
down the Colorado River through the canyon and out into
Arizona.
            If you ask yourself that question in this
case, along the Great Falls, you would say yes, because
the evidence was unrebutted that millions of dollars of
gold was traveled up from Helena to Fort Benton along
the -- the Missouri River with the aid of a portage and
that that was unquestionably a highway of commerce.
            What they're asking this Court to do is chop

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

37

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

rivers up into navigable and nonnavigable pieces.  How
would that impact the public trust doctrine?  The -- the
brief filed by the National --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  So, you just -- so, you
are disagreeing with the United States, which has given
us its view of what the Federal law is.  It doesn't
coincide with Montana's.
            MR. GARRE:  The United States has sided
completely with Montana.  The answer it gives for what
is a short interruption in its brief is an interruption
that doesn't warrant separate consideration.  That's on
page 17 of its brief.  That's the epitome of a circular
test, and --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Just out of -- I mean, to
waste your time for a second, why do the feds own the
land underneath the -- and why -- under the nonnavigable
parts?  And why do the feds own the land under a
nonnavigable stream?
            MR. GARRE:  I think if -- if you applied the
proper test here, you would conclude that the river --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I mean, little creeks
somewhere which you'd think, gee, those belong to the
State, but turns out the feds own the land underneath
the little creek; is that right?
            MR. GARRE:  I think what -- the nonnavigable

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

38

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

parts --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Yes.
            MR. GARRE:  -- didn't transfer under the
equal footing doctrine.  Oftentimes, those were subject
to separate conveyances.  So, they might come into
private property.  I think --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  I see.  So, the rule is, on
the nonnavigable streams, it depends on what the
conveyance was at the time of statehood, and those are
individual matters, and sometimes --
            MR. GARRE:  Right.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- you'll see the feds own
them and sometimes the States.
            MR. GARRE:  And what was --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Is that right?
            MR. GARRE:  Yes, I think that's right.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  Okay.
            MR. GARRE:  And what was critically
important to the -- to the Framers was that the States
would have control over the navigable waterways.  This
Court has described that as an essential attribute of
State sovereignty.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  But we're talking
about the land at the bottom of the -- the river.  What
is it that the State can't do on the navigable waterways

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

39

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

that it wants to do?
            MR. GARRE:  Well, owner -- the ownership --
along with ownership goes the right to control whether
facilities can be built on them, bridges or pipelines.
It goes -- along with that goes the rights to mineral
leases --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But as -- but as the Chief
Justice is indicating, I think, this concerns who owns
the bed; and that's different from navigable waters of
the United States.
            And some of the answers you gave to
Justice Alito about -- that the purposes and the reasons
for navigable waters of the United States are quite
different, really, than for the considerations we have
about riparian ownership.  Navigable waters of the
United States can be controlled by the United States for
many purposes, but that is concurrent with a separate
document -- doctrine for underlying ownership of the
bed.
            MR. GARRE:  Right.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And it's not clear to me
that the test for navigable waters is the same in each
case as to the whole river.
            MR. GARRE:  I think that the test that we're
articulating is The Daniel Ball and The Montello test --

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

40

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

continuous highway test.  I think with respect to the
riverbeds, it's always been understood that with control
of the riverbeds along navigable waters, States have a
right to control fishing and navigation and other
aspects.
            JUSTICE BREYER:  But, now, Montello was a
case -- to follow up this same question.  Montello, I
take it, was not a title case.  Montello was a
regulation of the stream case.  So, I can understand
perfectly well why that language in Montello applies for
the reason Justice Kennedy just said.  Now, I grant you
that they -- in later title cases, this Court has taken
the same words and written them.  But is there an
instance in the later title cases where that language
has played a controlling role?
            MR. GARRE:  Well, the --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  What case should I look at
to see that it was really meant that that -- this --
see, start where Justice Scalia was and then say what
Justice Kennedy just said --
            MR. GARRE:  There's certainly --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  -- and then thinking,
well -- I'm thinking, well, Montello was a case that
involved a different purpose, and now the later cases,
although they quoted the language, it didn't have a

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

41

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

role.  Am I right or not?
            MR. GARRE:  This case has recognized always
that The Daniel Ball and The Montello is the test for
navigability for title as well as admiralty.  It has
never drawn the kind of distinction that PPL and the
United States ask you to draw here.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  The question is, has it
held that?  Do you have a case where it would have made
a difference?
            MR. GARRE:  Not -- not of this Court.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Okay.
            MR. GARRE:  And the lower courts have relied
upon The Daniel Ball and The Montello in plenty of
circumstances adjudicating title.  I think the Court has
to think about what the world would look like if the
Court adopted PPL and the United States' views.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, if this is such an
understood and traditional rule, why -- why didn't
Montana make its rights known earlier when these private
owners bought the land?  Indeed, the State gave them
condemnation power to flood adjacent lands so that they
could build their dams.
            MR. GARRE:  Again --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  And you say while all this
was going on, well, of course, everybody knew that

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

42

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Montana owned this land.
            And now they come back, what, a hundred
years later, and they not only want to get the land
back, they want to tax them for their use of it over --
over all these hundred years.
            MR. GARRE:  PPL's deeds --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  That's extraordinary.
            MR. GARRE:  Your Honor, PPL's deeds
specifically exclude the riverbeds at issue in this
case.  So, PPL can have no claim to those lands and, in
fact, in its supplemental brief says that the United
States owns the lands.  We're not talking about the
flood lands here; we're talking about the -- between the
low-water marks.  Those lands were surveyed and
meandered at statehood to show that they did not convey
to private parties.
            Montana courts have recognized for more than
a century that these waters are not navigable.
Everybody understood that they were navigable.  The
reason why this issue only arises now is because of a
1999 decision of the Montana Supreme Court that said
that the State -- made clear that the State had a
fiduciary obligation to seek compensation for the use of
the riverbeds.  So, that -- that then teed up the
question of whether the State could actually charge rent

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

43

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

for the riverbeds.  The State in this case --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  And what about other
landowners on the riverbeds?  If Montana wins this case,
will they be paying rent as well?
            MR. GARRE:  They're not using the riverbeds,
Your Honor.  The reason why the facilities here are
using the riverbeds is because they actually sit on it.
There are other instances where private landowners have
easements and leases, like mineral leases with the
State, under the -- because of the accepted
understanding that the State does own those lands.  And
this is not at all unusual.
            If you look at the State's brief, Washington
and Oregon have thousands of these types of permits
because it's established that if the water is navigable,
then the State owns the riverbeds, and there are
consequences that flow over this.  But this really isn't
a fight between the State and the private landowners.
It's -- it's a fight between the State and the United
States, because if this case --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Just if I could understand
then, you think that this is a one of a kind landowner;
there are no other landowners in Montana who are in the
situation of PPL?
            MR. GARRE:  No, I think there are other

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

44

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

landowners who have asserted -- who want rights to use
-- to get minerals along rivers or have piers or
bridges, and in those situations, they get permits from
the State to use it.  But I think what's going to happen
is, if this Court declares that every mile or so that is
an interruption is nonnavigable, then title is going to
transfer to the United States because, under this
Court's precedent in Utah, the Court held that if waters
were not navigable, the United States would have --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Is there a mile stretch
anywhere on this river?
            MR. GARRE:  A mile stretch?
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Yes.  Is there a mile
stretch in which the boats stop?
            MR. GARRE:  Well --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  There's some water in
the middle, and they --
            MR. GARRE:  There are two areas at issue
here:  the Great Falls stretch --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I know the two at issue.
But you're saying, if we rule the way we do, we're going
to slice it up and so does the Attorney -- the Solicitor
General's office say, we're going to slice it up half
mile or half acre by half acre.  I'm not sure how that
happens.  I go back to Justice Kennedy's question, which

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

45

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

is, does a boat stop midstream?
            MR. GARRE:  So, the test would be any non-de
minimis interruption.  That's the one that PPL and the
United States are urging here.  There are thousands of
dams in the country.  There's the Niagara Falls, which
for more than a century, it's been understood that the
State owns it, not because it's an international
boundary; that's a line plucked out of a decision.  Read
the decision --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  All right.  So, how do I
find that out?  If I start with a practical premise of
not wanting to interrupt expectations, I also believe
that it's the most common thing in the world for
electric power companies to put hydroelectric facilities
where there are waterfalls or rapids, and that's true
all over the country.  So, what's the status quo with
the -- you know, somebody could count up how many
hydroelectric plants there are on waterfalls.
            And what's the general view?  Have those
hydroelectric companies been thinking that they are
leasing or buying from the feds or from the States?  I
mean, I don't know what's happened in the past.  And I
have looked at the briefs.  I can't get a very good
picture.
            MR. GARRE:  The best evidence I think we

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

46

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

have about this question of the implications comes from
the brief filed by 26 States, which explains that if
this Court adopts the kind of segmentation approach, any
interruption that is -- that is not de minimis has to be
carved out, it's going to wreak havoc in States across
the country, especially in the western States.  Again,
getting back to --
            JUSTICE BREYER:  When you say "wreak havoc,"
do you mean to say that the States have leased those
strips with the waterfalls which are impassable to
hydroelectric companies, and the leases will have to be
renegotiated or something like that?
            MR. GARRE:  I'm not referring to specific
leases on that.  I'm talking about things like public
access for fishing, for example.  The States have cited
the Steelheader case in Oregon.  And this is what's
going to happen:  Either the public -- private
landowners are going to claim people coming along my
banks to fish, they don't have access to these waters.
If they were navigable -- understood as navigable waters
owned by the State, it's clear that they had would have
access.  There's going to be clashes.  There's going to
be --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  I thought you say it
doesn't belong to the private individuals.  I thought

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

47

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

you said it belongs to the United States if it doesn't
belong to the State.
            MR. GARRE:  I think -- what this Court has
said is if it's not navigable, the United States has it.
But there would be the question --
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, there you are.  And
you think the United States is going to keep off these
fishermen?
            MR. GARRE:  The question is whether there'd
be a separate conveyance from the United States.
There's certainly going to be plenty of private
landowners, I think, who are going to claim private
ownership.  So, there is going to be some sorting out to
do.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  But you think they're
wrong, right?
            MR. GARRE:  Well, no.  They're -- if -- if
the river is not navigable, then the lands didn't convey
under the equal footing doctrine.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Right.
            MR. GARRE:  There'd be a separate question
of whether they conveyed by some other Federal patent,
land patent, or the like.  And there are -- certainly
are plenty of those.  But I think what's clear is --
            JUSTICE GINSBURG:  Mr. Garre, you -- you

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

48

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

have said this is genuinely a controversy between the
State and the United States, but the United States is
not a party to this -- to this litigation.  And we know
from the briefing before us, the United States takes a
different position than Montana.  It doesn't agree with
you.  But if this case -- how can a case be decided
without any input from the United States when you say
that's the true dispute; it is between the State and the
nation?
            MR. GARRE:  Well, the United States is here.
It has given its views.  It's true that it didn't
participate below, and that is a little bit unusual.
What's weird is that the United States has never
actually asserted ownership to the riverbeds in this
case.  But I think --
            JUSTICE KAGAN:  Does PPL pay rent to the
United States?
            MR. GARRE:  Not with respect to the
riverbeds.  There's a statement in the brief that
suggests that they pay rent.  That's with respect to the
upland, the flooded lands, for example, along the
reservoir.  The United States has never charged rent for
the use of the riverbeds themselves between the
low-water marks.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Would you help me with

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

49

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

this?  Navigable waters of the United States for
purposes of Federal jurisdiction over many activities
such as boating is one concept.  Navigable waters of the
United States for purposes of State ownership of the bed
serves different purposes.
            Are the -- are the boundaries and the
definitions of what is navigable co-extensive and
parallel and -- and precisely the same in each case?
Or, on the other hand, are there some cases where a body
of water, say the falls, is navigable waters of the
United States but not navigable waters of the United
States for purposes of bed ownership by the State?
            MR. GARRE:  I mean, certainly --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And -- and if there is a
difference, can you tell me a case?  And I think
Justice Scalia basically was asking this earlier.
            MR. GARRE:  There are two -- well, there's
three distinctions between the test for title --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Yes.
            MR. GARRE:  -- and the test for regulatory
purposes --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Yes.
            MR. GARRE:  -- none of which bear on the
dispute in this case.  One is for title.  You look at
the time of statehood.  You don't look at the river at a

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

50

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

later time.  The next is, is that, for purposes of
title, you look at the river in its natural state.  You
don't look at improvements.  And the third is, for
purposes of title, the kind of commerce you consider is
actually more expansive than the type you could consider
for regulatory purposes.
            This case, the focus has been on the rivers
at the time of statehood, their use as highways of
commerce without improvements, which is in the heartland
of the test for title for navigability under The Daniel
Ball and The Montello.
            None of the distinctions that this Court has
ever recognized would bear on this, nor would it make
any sense, I think, to say that the rule that we
identified in The Montello as -- that has -- for more
than a century, has been established as the test for
title for navigability somehow has to be applied
differently in this case in a way that would require
breaking up the rivers.  And I think --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  But it is conceded, is it
not, that -- if we rule for the power companies in this
case, there still may be a situation in which these
waters can be navigable waters of the United States for
other purposes, other than ownership of the bed?  Or am
I wrong on that?

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

51

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

            MR. GARRE:  No, I think the United States'
position is say they're navigable for Federal purposes
but not for State purposes.  And I think -- and they've
taken what I think is a pretty remarkable position.
            If you look at the briefs that we've
appended to our brief, the United States' in the Montana
Power Company case, the United States is saying that the
very same stretch of the Missouri along the Great Falls
is navigable because it served as a continuous highway
of commerce, and the falls did not prevent the river
from being used as a continuous highway; and, therefore,
it's navigable under The Montello and The Daniel Ball,
which is the theory that they recognize.
            And now they're here saying, well, that was
only for regulatory purposes, not for title purposes.
But it's the same test in both cases, and that's the
test that the nation has understood for more than
50 years.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  No, but I'm not sure
it has the same consequences.  It seems to me that
regardless of who prevails in this case, the State will
be able to exercise regulatory jurisdiction over the
waters.  You know, you can't fish during these seasons,
or there are different limits on how many fish you can
take.  And so will the Federal Government.  It will be

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

52

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

able to apply Federal law to the river regardless of who
owns parts of the river, regardless of who owns the land
underneath.
            MR. GARRE:  And so, this Court has always
recognized the States' authority to make those decisions
as an essential attribute of their sovereignty.  And
that's why the States --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Without regard --
but I would say without regard to whether they happened
to own the land under the -- under the river or not.
            MR. GARRE:  No, when they -- when they own
the land under the river, that -- the ability to control
access along those rivers -- river and fishing and the
like is an essential attribute of State sovereignty.
So, just saying that, well, the Federal Government and
the State can regulate together is, I think, an
important intrusion on State sovereignty as this Court
has always understood under the equal footing doctrine
and the public trust doctrine.
            And you also have the problem of competing
regulation of these rivers when you go from mile to
mile, interruption to interruption, potentially
thousands along rivers.  And that's laid out in the
brief by the environmental groups here, the National
Wildlife Foundation and Trout Unlimited and other

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

53

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

groups, that talk about the problems with fragmented
regulatory jurisdiction.
            And you also get into the question of public
access for fishing, too.  The rivers are used for
commerce, but the public trust doctrine was always used
to protect access to rivers for fishing, too.  And so,
if you look at a place like the Great Falls or the
Thompson Falls, these are among the most sought-after
fishing rivers in the world.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  You're willing to concede
on behalf of the State that if we find that the State
does not have ownership of the bed, the State does not
have regulatory jurisdiction for all of these purposes
that you're now describing?
            MR. GARRE:  Absolutely not, Justice Scalia.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, then your argument
doesn't carry much weight.
            MR. GARRE:  Well --
            JUSTICE ALITO:  The State can continue to
regulate all those things whether or not it owns the
bed.
            MR. GARRE:  And so, every time this Court
has said that the ability to do that is an essential
attribute of sovereignty, it must not have meant it
because the United States could do it, too.  I mean, it

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

54

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

is important to the States because having the sovereign
capacity over those riverbeds as navigable waters under
the public trust doctrine is critical to the States'
authority.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Well, you have sovereignty
over the land owned, owned by other private persons.
            MR. GARRE:  And -- and I think it gets back
to the public trust doctrine, the equal footing
doctrine, what this Court has said in the Utah case and
other cases about the role of States in regulating
navigable rivers and owning title to the riverbeds
underlying those rivers.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  We haven't talked
much about the Madison.  What -- what is your best piece
of evidence with respect to the Madison for the
proposition that it was navigable at statehood?
            MR. GARRE:  Well, there was some evidence of
use by fur trappers and the like.  It was not extensive
because this area was relatively sparse.  I think --
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Well, fur trappers
are going to go -- they don't need a lot of -- a lot of
water to ply their canoes up the river.
            MR. GARRE:  Well, and this Court has
recognized that things like pirogues and bateaux were
sufficient to establish the continuous highway of

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

55

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

commerce.
            I think the point on the Madison is the
susceptibility for use as a navigable river.  And the
main point that we made below is that where their own
expert recognized that PPL's dams had impeded the flow
of water over of the river, that if those dams impede
the flow of water over the river but yet today there are
thousands of drift boats similar to the boats that would
have used it at the time of statehood, then it's good
evidence that it was susceptible for use.
            But I think the Madison is in a different
category than the Missouri and the Clark Fork.
            I do want to answer the question about the
17 miles.  The Desplaines River in the Economy Light
case, there was an 18-mile portage.  That's made clear
at page 18a of our addendum, where the Government
recognized that.  In Montello, it was a 5-mile portage.
In -- there are other examples of portages.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Five miles, was that --
was that the canal?  What subsequently became the canal
area?
            MR. GARRE:  I -- I think that's right.  It's
in the testimony in that decision.  But, certainly,
17 miles -- and the other thing is, is that in the
amicus brief, on page 27 of the Tubbs brief, she

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

56

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

suggests that the actual portage before statehood was
only 8 miles.  I don't think you could draw a
constitutional line between 5, 7, or even 10 miles and
17 miles.
            We think the line the Constitution draws is
whether -- asks whether the river was -- served as a
continuous highway of commerce, notwithstanding any
interruption along that way.
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  I think that then the
simplest rule is, is the river from shore to opposite
shore -- any portion of it -- did boats traverse it?
That would be I think what Justice Alito was asking.
            MR. GARRE:  But it's not even the rule that
PPL was asking for, because they acknowledge that some
interruptions would be navigable.  They call it "non-de
minimis."  It's not clear how you get there.
            If you go between the low-water marks,
there's only a part of the way that you could actually
bring a boat up, but, yet, it's established that the
State owns the entire riverbeds between low-water mark
to low-water mark.
            After traversing the Missouri and the very
falls at issue in this case, Meriwether Lewis described
that he didn't think the world could furnish a finer
example of a navigable river through a mountainous

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

57

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

country than the Missouri.  That assessment made by the
President's own agent, charged with assessing the
suitability of the Missouri for commerce, was consistent
with more than 140 years of this precedent --
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  Did he write that during
his 30-day -- 32-day portage?
            (Laughter.)
            MR. GARRE:  Your Honor, it was an 11-day
portage.  At the time of statehood, it was a 1-day
portage.  I think what's significant is he wrote it
after that portage.  And yet, he recognized there was
not a finer example of a navigable river through
mountainous country.  That assessment was consistent
with this Court's precedents for more than 140 years.
It's consistent with the actual use of the Missouri as a
continuous highway of commerce along the very stretch at
issue here.
            We don't believe that PPL or the United
States has provided a legal reason for this Court to
overturn the judgment of the Montana Supreme Court that
the Missouri or the other rivers at issue in this case
are navigable.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel.
            Mr. Clement, you have 4 minutes remaining.
          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

58

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

               ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
            MR. CLEMENT:  Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
            A few points in rebuttal:  First, it's --
            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR:  Can you point to some
portages that are de minimis?  Point me -- I don't care
where they are in the United States.  Give me a list of
some that are de minimis.
            MR. CLEMENT:  I mean, I don't have any de
minimis portages for you.  The portages he's talking
about, as far as I can tell, the 5-mile and the 8-mile,
are portages between rivers, and that has nothing to do
with whether the bypassed stretch of a river would be
nonnavigable because it's de minimis, because if you
portage between two rivers, you're not bypassing
anything.
            Where I can talk about sort of portages
being de minimis, if you look at the special master's
report in the Utah case, there are a few places in the
Cataract Canyon where he talks about portages, and he
talks -- you know, in parts where they got boats to.
But the key point is, whenever the Court has talked
about portages in the context of navigability, they've
pointed to them as suggesting non-navigability, and in
certain circumstances said, well, you had to portage a
little bit, but that's not enough to make the stretch

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

59

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

nonnavigable.
            JUSTICE KENNEDY:  And what were your -- what
were your other four points you were going to give us?
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, I was going to give you
a couple, Your Honor.  I'd start with the deeds.  You
know, the State wants to make something of the fact that
the deeds stop at the river.  But that's true throughout
the State.  And the question then becomes, what rule
governs the ownership of the riverbeds?  And that's
where navigability versus non-navigability.  So, the
deeds don't prove anything.  That's just the way the
deeds were written.
            The next point:  Justice Kagan, you asked
about, you know, do the other owner -- other people on
the river have anything to fear.  And the answer as far
as I heard was, well, these are different.  They sit on
the riverbed.  Well, two things, Your Honor:  So do some
of the piers, and that's why people have filed amicus
briefs and are very concerned.
            But more to the point, these things have not
moved under the riverbed recently.  They've been sitting
there for a hundred years, and the State lent its
eminent domain power to us to help us build these dams.
These dams were critical to developing energy and
development in this area.  And now a hundred years

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

60

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

later, they want compensation for the little river
strip under that.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  Could the United States
demand compensation?
            MR. CLEMENT:  We pay the United States
compensation right now.  The difference is the United
States isn't going in afterwards and trying to put a
hold-up to us and saying they want $50 million for this.
We pay rents to FERC for some of these lands.  Actually,
the State gets 37.5 percent of that back.
            JUSTICE SCALIA:  For the riverbed?  For the
riverbed land --
            MR. CLEMENT:  Well, look at footnote 3 of
the Government's brief.  I mean, again, the problem here
is if you want people to have deeds that really parse
out whether it's riverbed or upland, they don't because
everybody defaults to the bottom line -- the background
rule.  The background rule is if it's a nonnavigable
river, the riparian owners, whether it be the United
States or private property owners, get to midway, or if
they own both on both sides, they get the whole thing.
            I think on "de minimis," we talk about it a
lot, but I would point out that the one thing we know
that's not de minimis from Utah is 4.35 miles, because
that's what the Court analyzes separately in the portion

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

61

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

of Cataract Canyon.
            Every stretch at issue here, every dam at
issue here, is more than 4.35 miles.  Fully five of the
dams are on the 17-mile Great Falls stretch, which they
agree is impassable.  The other five are reservoir dams
that create reservoirs that extend over 4.35 miles.
            So, there's nothing de minimis in the best
evidence that is the $50 million in compensation.  I
think the $50 million in back rent also shows that
although this is a dispute between Montana and the
United States, my client is caught in the middle of it,
and they're obviously concerned about it, too.
            I want to talk about what's disputed and
what's undisputed.  What is undisputed is the 17 miles
is impassable.  That's enough, as I say, to give us
judgment as a matter of law for the five dams on that
stretch.  What is hotly disputed, despite my friend's
representation, is whether or not there was through
commerce through this bypass route.  He suggests it's
undisputed that gold went from Helena down to Fort
Benton down to St. Louis.  And that, of course, is not
disputed, but it went on roads.  It didn't go on the
upper -- on the upper Missouri.
            And if you want to know who's got the better
of this argument, I ask you to think about this

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

62

question:  The United States Army built a 600-mile
overland road from Fort Benton, the traditional head of
navigation on the Missouri, to Walla Walla, Washington.
Now, if the State is right and the upper Missouri and
the Clark Fork were navigable, all they had to do is --
is have a 60-mile road to connect the two.  They were
never navigable.
            Thank you, Your Honor.
            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
            The case is submitted.
            (Whereupon, at 12:09 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

Alderson Reporting Company

Official
Official

63

A

ability 52:12

53:23

able 51:22 52:1
above-entitled

1:11 62:13

absolutely 11:24

16:22 53:15
accepted 43:10
access 46:15,19

46:22 52:13
53:4,6

account 22:8
acknowledge

56:14

acre 8:24 34:11
34:11 44:24,24

Act 18:18,18
action 25:2,22

26:1

activities 49:2
actual 56:1

57:15

addendum

55:16

additional 25:20
address 31:5
addresses 6:7

17:21

adheres 19:16
adhering 27:1
adjacent 6:2

41:21

adjudicate 26:6
adjudicating

administrable

41:14

27:14

admiralty 18:17

18:25 41:4
adopt 7:13

34:10

adopted 6:23
35:18 41:16
adoption 6:5
adopts 46:3
adversary 31:1

agent 57:2
ago 25:24
agree 20:24
21:10 48:5
61:5

agrees 25:14
aid 36:23
Alito 5:2 6:3,11
6:17 15:3,6,21
32:24 33:7,14
33:23 34:1,14
39:12 53:19
56:12

Alito's 28:8
alleged 30:8
allowed 4:1
allows 12:7
American 6:20
amicus 1:19 2:8

18:6 32:21
55:25 59:18
amount 13:8
amounts 3:17
Anacostia 16:25
analogy 13:18
analysis 5:21
analyzed 9:1
analyzes 60:25
answer 14:16
24:17 25:23
27:5 29:17,19
37:9 55:13
59:15

answering 31:24
answers 39:11
anyplace 5:10
anyway 19:21

35:10

apparently 27:4
APPEARAN...

appeared 10:6,9
appended 30:16

1:14

51:6

appendix 29:7
applied 29:9
32:15 35:6

37:19 50:17
applies 40:10
apply 19:21

32:13,14 52:1
appoint 24:23
approach 31:3,3

appropriate

46:3

36:5

approve 4:10
area 15:13 20:9

30:2 54:19
55:21 59:25

areas 12:11

16:20 30:20
44:18

argued 36:15
arguing 34:14
argument 1:12
2:2,5,9,12 3:3
3:6 15:14 18:5
28:19 35:12,17
53:16 57:25
61:25

arises 7:19

42:20

Arizona 36:18
Army 62:1
arteries 33:18

35:5

articulating

artificiality

39:25

17:10

ascertain 19:25
asked 31:19

59:13

asking 12:17
14:17 31:25
32:20 34:9
36:25 49:16
56:12,14
asks 56:6
aspects 40:5
asserted 44:1

48:14

assessed 34:12

assessing 57:2
assessment 57:1

57:13

assisted 3:19
assume 15:8

assuming 10:1

26:12

31:4

Attorney 44:22
attribute 38:21
52:6,14 53:24
authorities 5:4
authority 5:7
18:23 52:5
54:4

avenue 34:21
a.m 1:13 3:2

B

back 3:10,11 4:2

5:12 9:9 12:1
16:2 19:15
26:5 27:3
29:10 30:14
33:10 34:4
42:2,4 44:25
46:7 54:7
60:10 61:9
background

60:17,18

backyard 16:5
Ball 5:13 28:4

29:11 32:10,13
32:16,18 39:25
41:3,13 50:11
51:12

banks 46:19
based 3:23 9:6
basic 7:24 18:11
basically 8:24
11:16 49:16

basis 15:7
bateaux 54:24
battle 5:24
bear 49:23

50:13

bed 9:21 11:19

11:20 32:7
39:9,19 49:4
49:12 50:24
53:12,21
beds 19:18

28:15

beginning 12:18
behalf 2:4,7,11
2:14 3:7 18:6
28:20 53:11
58:1

believe 4:17
45:12 57:18
belong 37:22
46:25 47:2

belonged 6:16
belongs 47:1
Benton 14:13
30:14 36:22
61:21 62:2

best 45:25 54:14

61:7

better 61:24
big 17:6
billions 30:13
bit 4:14 24:5,6

27:8 48:12
58:25
bite 8:14
bits 23:15 34:6
boat 10:11,12,13
11:18 12:1,5,6
12:8 15:12,19
16:8 21:9 22:9
22:12,13,13,22
26:16,24 27:4
27:6 31:18
45:1 56:19
boating 49:3
boats 11:23
12:11 13:6
16:4 19:15
27:7,24 28:2
28:11 44:14
55:8,8 56:11
58:20

body 6:7 49:9

Alderson Reporting Company
Alderson Reporting Company

Official

64

borders 6:6
borrowed 6:25
bottom 38:24

60:17

bought 41:20
bound 25:7,25

26:2

boundaries 49:6
boundary 23:4

23:24 45:8

breaking 50:19
Brewer-Elliott

5:18 6:1

BREYER 22:22

23:6,11,20
24:4,8,16
37:14,21 38:2
38:7,12,15,17
40:6,17,22
45:10 46:8
bridges 39:4

44:3

brief 8:22 23:9

29:8 30:22
32:21 37:3,10
37:12 42:11
43:13 46:2
48:19 51:6
52:24 55:25,25
60:14

briefing 48:4
briefs 30:16
45:23 51:5
59:19

bright-line 8:14
bring 25:21,25

56:19

Britain 6:15
broader 35:7
build 41:22

59:23

building 4:5
built 3:11 39:4

62:1

buying 45:21
bypass 14:24,25

17:1 61:19

bypassed 13:10

15:25 16:8
19:8 58:12

bypassing 58:14

C
C 2:1 3:1
cab 14:19
call 11:11 56:15
canal 11:3 55:20

canoes 27:9

55:20

54:22

canyon 9:22
36:12,16,17
58:19 61:1
capacity 54:2
care 58:5
cargo 11:23 12:5

12:18,20,25
13:5

carried 12:8
carry 26:18 27:6

53:17

carrying 27:3
carve 29:18
carved 46:5
case 3:4 13:1,17
24:25 25:6,11
25:18 28:23
30:19 31:15,16
32:11,12,22
33:20 34:8
35:18,20,21
36:9,13,20
39:23 40:7,8,9
40:17,23 41:2
41:8 42:10
43:1,3,20
46:16 48:6,6
48:15 49:8,15
49:24 50:7,18
50:22 51:7,21
54:9 55:15
56:23 57:21
58:18 62:11,12
cases 3:16 5:15

5:16,21 8:20
8:21,22,25
9:17 13:4
40:12,14,24
49:9 51:16
54:10

Cataract 36:12

58:19 61:1

category 55:12
caught 61:11
cause 32:23
century 29:5
32:18 42:18
45:6 50:16

cert 25:11
certain 10:11

58:24

certainly 5:5

40:21 47:11,23
49:13 55:23

change 4:7

12:11

channel 13:6,8

14:25 15:1
charge 34:23

42:25

charged 48:22

57:2

Chief 3:3,8

13:12,17 14:8
18:3,8 19:19
25:23 28:7,17
28:21 38:23
39:7 51:19
52:8 54:13,20
57:23 58:2
62:9

choice 7:12
chop 34:5 36:25
chopping 20:1,5
circular 37:12
circumstance

20:15

circumstances
41:14 58:24

cite 5:8
cited 5:8 46:15

claim 3:10,22

4:1 28:10
42:10 46:18
47:12

Clark 4:16

17:19,20,24
55:12 62:5
clashes 46:22
classic 11:1,8
Clean 18:18
clear 7:11 14:8
39:21 42:22
46:21 47:24
55:15 56:16

clearly 4:11
Clement 1:15

2:3,13 3:5,6,8
4:8 5:11 6:10
6:22 8:5,8,12
10:16,19,22
11:5,24 12:2
12:12 13:2,16
14:7 15:4,20
16:14,17,21
17:5 19:13
20:24 27:17
57:24,25 58:2
58:8 59:4 60:5
60:13

client 61:11
close 5:11 16:18
closed 35:9,11
coincide 37:7
colonial 6:21
Colorado 36:17
come 7:12 9:7
25:9,14 38:5
42:2

comes 3:22 7:16

17:9 46:1
coming 9:20

46:18

commerce 10:5
10:8,15 13:15
15:10,12,22,24
16:1 19:4,10
20:2 29:12

30:4,12 31:21
32:3 33:18
34:21 35:1,5
35:16,16 36:8
36:11,15,24
50:4,9 51:10
53:5 55:1 56:7
57:3,16 61:19

commercial

4:25 14:1,1,10

committed

18:10

common 6:7,11
6:12,25 14:18
45:13

companies

17:15 45:14,20
46:11 50:21
Company 51:7
compensation

3:23 42:23
60:1,4,6 61:8

competing

30:19 52:20

completely
34:11 37:9

concede 53:10
conceded 50:20
concept 49:3
conception 35:7
concerned 35:3

59:19 61:12

concerning

18:13

concerns 39:8
conclude 37:20
concurrent

condemnation

39:17

41:21

connect 62:6
consequences
43:17 51:20
consider 22:1

50:4,5

consideration
25:4,20 26:13

Alderson Reporting Company

37:11

considerations
27:18 39:14

considered 23:1
consistent 57:3

57:13,15

constitute 27:14
Constitution 6:5

29:2 56:5

constitutional

31:9 56:3
consult 5:4
context 8:16

58:22

continue 53:19
continuous

29:11 31:20
36:8,11,14
40:1 51:9,11
54:25 56:7
57:16

control 19:17
24:13 25:13
33:21 38:20
39:3 40:2,4
52:12

controlled 39:16
controlling

40:15

controls 22:2
controversy

convey 42:15

conveyance 38:9

48:1

47:18

47:10

38:5

47:22

conveyances

conveyed 29:2

core 33:20
counsel 18:3
28:17 57:23
62:9,10

count 45:17
country 33:18
35:5 45:5,16

46:6 57:1,13
County 17:24
couple 59:5
course 41:25

61:21

court 1:1,12 3:9

4:1,10,17,23
5:16,17 7:10
7:24,25 8:20
9:1 10:6 12:10
17:14,18,20,23
18:9,10 25:2
25:15,17,18,22
26:5,5 27:19
28:15,22 29:9
29:13 30:21
31:3,8,8,9,10
31:11 32:11,17
32:20,23 34:7
34:12 35:18,19
35:22 36:25
38:21 40:12
41:10,14,16
42:21 44:5,8
46:3 47:3
50:12 52:4,17
53:22 54:9,23
57:19,20 58:21
60:25

courts 20:20

25:11 32:17,17
41:12 42:17
court's 5:21
8:22 19:3
24:22 26:3
28:25 29:16,19
29:25 31:19
32:15 33:5
36:8 44:8
57:14

covered 30:15
co-extensive

49:7

create 20:2 61:6
created 3:15

17:23

creating 6:24

Official

65

creek 37:24
creeks 37:21
critical 4:16
5:14 54:3
59:24

critically 38:18
curiae 1:19 2:8

18:6

curious 24:18
current 27:24
customary 28:4

30:4

cut 13:7
D

D 1:15 2:3,13
3:1,6 57:25

dam 61:2
dams 3:11,14,25

17:16 27:22
41:22 45:5
55:5,6 59:23
59:24 61:4,5
61:16

Daniel 5:13 28:4
29:10 32:10,13
32:16,18 39:25
41:3,13 50:10
51:12
day 3:11
de 8:3,14,15

9:12 10:4,18
13:7 15:5
20:17,19 21:23
26:14 46:4
58:5,7,8,13,17
60:22,24 61:7
deal 3:20 7:18
dealing 8:20
dealt 8:25
dear 23:13
debate 14:3
December 1:9
decide 19:9
decided 9:17
24:17 34:9
48:6

deciding 19:7

20:13

decision 4:17

7:24 26:3
32:15 42:21
45:8,9 55:23
decisions 52:5
declares 44:5
decree 17:14,19

17:20

deeds 29:6 42:6
42:8 59:5,7,11
59:12 60:15

deeply 12:7
defaults 60:17
define 8:3 23:21
defining 9:19
definition 8:14
definitions 49:7
definitively 26:7
degree 13:3
demand 60:4
demonstrates

13:9,13

Department

1:18

depended 19:2
depends 38:8
Deputy 1:17
derives 6:4
described 20:16

38:21 56:23

describes 23:10
describing

53:14

despite 61:17
Desplaines

55:14

detail 30:15
determine 27:25

determining

developing

31:2

19:6

59:24

59:25

development

deviating 4:12
difference 18:21

41:9 49:15
60:6

different 4:15

4:20 6:13 10:1
12:22,25 13:3
16:10 24:2,6
27:18 32:6
34:12 39:9,14
40:24 48:5
49:5 51:24
55:11 59:16

differently

50:18

difficult 19:21

difficulties 20:3

19:25

20:15

directions 26:6
directly 4:18
disagree 12:16
disagreeing 37:5
disagreement

5:6

discernible 5:18

9:19 20:7

discuss 27:16
discussed 27:17
discussing 23:19

27:20

discussion 10:2
dispute 14:9
30:20 48:8
49:24 61:10
disputed 61:13

61:17,22
disruption

32:23

dissent 34:7
distance 10:11

10:12,14 13:23
14:22

distances 12:14
distinction 41:5
distinctions

49:18 50:12

Alderson Reporting Company

distinguish

10:25

district 35:18
doctrine 4:6

28:14 33:3,11
33:13 37:2
38:4 39:18
47:19 52:18,19
53:5 54:3,8,9
document 39:18
dollars 4:2

30:13,14 36:21

domain 3:20

59:23

draft 12:6
drag 26:20
draw 41:6 56:2
drawing 19:20
drawn 41:5
draws 56:5
drift 27:24
28:12 55:8
drive 14:20
driven 12:20
drove 10:11
Durham 27:7
D.C 1:8,15,18
1:21 13:24

E
E 2:1 3:1,1
earlier 28:8

41:19 49:16

easements 3:13

3:16 43:9

east 16:24 30:14
eastern 7:3,6
easy 32:2
ebb 6:14
economically

12:24

Economy 55:14
EDWIN 1:17

2:6 18:5

efforts 11:11,13

11:16 17:17
either 36:15

elaborate 3:15

46:17

17:17

electric 45:14
eminent 3:19

59:23

emphasis 27:23
emphatically

35:19

enable 11:13
ended 6:13
energy 59:24
England 6:12,12

6:13

ensuring 35:4
entire 17:7,23
17:24 56:20
entitled 3:23
environmental

52:24

epitome 37:12
equal 28:14 38:4

47:19 52:18
54:8

error 4:16 31:3
errors 4:20

especially 14:24

18:11

46:6

ESQ 1:15,17,21

2:3,6,10,13

essential 38:21
52:6,14 53:23
establish 29:20

54:25

established

34:15 43:15
50:16 56:19
estoppel 4:4
everybody

25:13 41:25
42:19 60:17
Everybody's

23:12

evidence 4:21,24
4:25 14:11,12
15:1 17:11

Official

66

18:13 22:12
30:19 31:21
36:21 45:25
54:15,17 55:10
61:8

evidentiary 31:5
exactly 4:8 17:8
example 5:17
18:25 31:17
46:15 48:21
56:25 57:12

examples 55:18
exception 21:24
exclude 29:8

42:9

exercise 51:22
expansive 50:5
expectations
4:11 16:2,10
16:10 19:14
45:12

experience 16:9
expert 55:5
explained 7:18
explains 46:2
extend 32:1 61:6
extended 20:10

23:18,21

extensive 54:18
extent 15:10
extraordinary

11:17 42:7
extreme 10:9

11:10,13
F

facilities 39:4
43:6 45:14
fact 4:5 7:18

21:7,8 29:14
29:17 42:11
59:6

factor 10:18
factors 10:3
factual 14:15
18:13 24:21
factually 14:9

failure 4:18
fair 31:2
fall 17:8 29:22
falls 14:10,13

15:25 17:7,12
17:22 20:10
21:2 22:14,23
22:25 23:13
30:10,11 31:18
35:13 36:20
44:19 45:5
49:10 51:8,10
53:7,8 56:23
61:4

far 58:10 59:15
favor 30:18
fear 59:15
feature 6:20
features 9:19

20:9

Federal 4:4,12

5:24 24:20
25:2,12,13,18
25:22 28:12
32:1,3 33:25
37:6 47:22
49:2 51:2,25
52:1,15

federalism

33:20

feds 37:15,17,23

38:12 45:21
feeling 22:24
feet 22:10 24:9
24:11,14,14
fences 34:23
FERC 60:9
fiduciary 42:23
fight 43:18,19
filed 32:22 37:3

46:2 59:18

find 45:11 53:11
findings 18:13
finer 56:24

57:12

first 14:17 20:4

27:19 32:14

fish 46:19 51:23

58:3

51:24

fishermen 47:8
fishing 28:12

33:5,7,8,11,12
40:4 46:15
52:13 53:4,6,9

fit 10:3
five 55:19 61:3,5

61:16

flew 13:20,21,24
float 27:21
floating 10:24
flood 3:16 28:24

41:21 42:13
flooded 3:25

48:21

flow 6:14 10:8
43:17 55:5,7

fluctuations

19:22
fly 13:18
flying 13:24
focus 4:18,19

7:22 50:7
focused 7:1
focusing 27:22
follow 34:15

40:7

footing 28:14
38:4 47:19
52:18 54:8

footnote 60:13
Fork 4:16 17:19
17:20,24 55:12
62:5

Fort 14:12 30:14

36:22 61:20
62:2

forth 19:15
found 36:12
foundation

27:25 52:25

founding 33:19
four 59:3
Fox 11:1,13

Alderson Reporting Company

fragmented

Framers 35:2

53:1

38:19

Francisco 13:20

14:21
free 33:4
friend's 61:17
front 19:12 21:9
Fully 61:3
fur 30:6,8 54:18

54:20

furnish 56:24
further 18:12

26:13

G

G 1:21 2:10 3:1

28:19

gap 13:22
Garre 1:21 2:10

28:18,19,21
29:25 30:3,11
30:25 31:7
32:9 33:2,10
33:17,25 34:4
35:2,12,17,23
36:2,6 37:8,19
37:25 38:3,11
38:14,16,18
39:2,20,24
40:16,21 41:2
41:10,12,23
42:6,8 43:5,25
44:12,15,18
45:2,25 46:13
47:3,9,17,21
47:25 48:10,18
49:13,17,20,23
51:1 52:4,11
53:15,18,22
54:7,17,23
55:22 56:13
57:8

gate 13:21
gee 37:22
general 1:17

Official

67

5:24 32:4
33:25 51:25
52:15 55:16
Government's

8:22 60:14
governs 59:9
grant 40:11
granted 30:22
granting 25:10
great 6:15 7:17
14:10,13 15:25
29:14 30:9,11
36:20 44:19
51:8 53:7 61:4

GREGORY
1:21 2:10
28:19

groups 52:24

53:1

guidance 8:10
guideposts 8:17

20:25

H

half 44:23,24,24
hand 49:9
happen 12:22
44:4 46:17

happened 30:7,9

45:22 52:9

happens 19:12
24:21 44:25

happy 8:5
Harbors 18:18
hard 9:11,22
havoc 46:5,8
head 14:13 62:2
hear 3:3
heard 59:16
heartland 50:9
heavily 5:4
held 41:8 44:8
Helena 30:14
36:22 61:20

help 5:13 48:25

59:23

helpful 8:18

hidden 3:18
highly 24:20
highway 15:22

15:24 16:1
19:4,6,7,8,9
20:2 29:12
31:21 36:8,11
36:15,24 40:1
51:9,11 54:25
56:7 57:16

highways 15:9

50:8

historic 4:25
history 10:7,20
12:17 30:12

hold 32:12
holdout 3:22
holdouts 3:20
holds 17:23
hold-up 60:8
Honor 32:9
33:11 42:8
43:6 57:8 59:5
59:17 62:8
hope 22:24
horse 7:21
hotly 61:17
hundred 3:21
42:2,5 59:22
59:25

hydroelectric
45:14,18,20
46:11

I

idea 6:23 7:4
identified 9:7,10

50:15

identifies 14:12
ignore 8:24 9:13
illegal 31:2
impact 10:15

37:2

impassable

35:10 46:10
61:5,15

impede 55:6

impeded 55:5
implications

46:1

important 7:2
10:25 20:23
24:11 38:19
52:17 54:1
impossible

12:24 35:16
improvement

11:14

50:3,9

36:4

improvements

inch 34:9,9 36:3

include 29:15
including 7:13
Indian 6:2
indicating 39:8
individual 38:10
individuals

46:25

inherent 20:13
initially 6:25
input 48:7
inquiry 8:16
instance 40:14
instances 43:8
instinct 14:18
internal 6:14
international
19:4 23:3,24
45:7

interrupt 14:4

45:12

interruption
26:22 27:11
37:10,10 44:6
45:3 46:4
52:22,22 56:8
interruptions

29:15,18 56:15
interstate 18:16

19:4,10

intervene 25:17
intervened 25:8
intrusion 52:17

26:5 28:6
30:15 45:19

General's 44:23
generate 9:9
generated 17:18
genuinely 48:1
geographic

29:17

geology 9:20
getting 3:16

46:7

gift 7:21
GINSBURG

25:8 26:9
35:23 36:3
37:4 47:25

give 8:6,13 58:6
59:3,4 61:15
given 25:4 37:5

48:11

gives 25:24

32:22,22 37:9
go 5:12 9:4 13:8

14:18 25:1,1
27:3 44:25
52:21 54:21
56:17 61:22
goes 39:3,5,5
going 4:9 5:13

8:6,8 12:3
15:12 16:4
19:15 22:2
24:20 25:13
26:11 29:10
41:25 44:4,6
44:21,23 46:5
46:17,18,22,22
47:7,11,12,13
54:21 59:3,4
60:7

gold 30:7,8,14
36:22 61:20

good 30:1 45:23

55:9

goods 10:10

36:16

Government

Alderson Reporting Company

involved 10:1

irreconcilable

40:24

7:23

island 8:23
islands 8:20,25

9:3

issue 4:15,19 5:2
5:22,23 7:2,19
10:1,18 11:7
11:15 14:15
28:24 31:6
33:20 36:9
42:9,20 44:18
44:20 56:23
57:17,21 61:2
61:3

J
JA 17:11
JFK 14:19
judgment 9:6
25:7 30:22
31:6,13 57:20
61:16

judgments 26:4
jump 22:10
jurisdiction
18:17 19:1
24:22,23 49:2
51:22 53:2,13
Justice 1:18 3:3
3:8 4:3,9 5:2
6:3,11,17 8:3,7
8:10,13 9:24
10:17,20,22
11:3,22,25
12:9,16 13:12
13:17 14:8
15:3,6,21
16:12,15,18
17:2 18:3,8,20
19:19 20:17,19
21:2,11,14,18
21:22 22:9,15
22:18,22 23:3
23:6,11,20,23

24:1,4,8,16
25:8,23 26:9
26:14,18,20
27:3 28:7,8,17
28:21 29:21
30:1,6,17 31:1
31:23 32:24
33:7,14,23
34:1,7,14 35:9
35:13,23 36:3
37:4,14,21
38:2,7,12,15
38:17,23 39:7
39:8,12,21
40:6,11,17,19
40:20,22 41:7
41:11,17,24
42:7 43:2,21
44:10,13,16,20
44:25 45:10
46:8,24 47:6
47:15,20,25
48:16,25 49:14
49:16,19,22
50:20 51:19
52:8 53:10,15
53:16,19 54:5
54:13,20 55:19
56:9,12 57:5
57:23 58:2,4
59:2,13 60:3
60:11 62:9
justification

15:17 34:2,17

K

Kagan 18:20

43:2,21 48:16
59:13

keep 33:3 47:7
Kennedy 4:3,9

22:9,15,18
39:7,21 40:11
40:20 48:25
49:14,19,22
50:20 57:5
59:2

Kennedy's

44:25

key 58:21
kind 7:21 9:22

10:25 11:7
14:10 17:9,16
28:7,9 41:5
43:22 46:3
50:4

2:6 18:4,5,8,21
18:24 20:4,18
20:22 21:5,13
21:17,20,25
22:11,17,19
23:5,9,17,22
23:25 24:3,7
24:10 25:3,16
26:2,12,17,19
26:21 27:6
28:13

knew 41:25
know 9:24 11:7
13:23 14:3,11
15:21 16:24
17:8,15,16
21:20 26:7
32:3 44:20
45:17,22 48:3
51:23 58:20
59:6,14 60:23
61:24

known 41:19

L
LA 14:21
laches 4:4
LaGuardia

14:19

laid 52:23
land 15:15 19:9
19:13,16 21:9
21:14 22:25
23:12 24:9,19
27:1 37:16,17
37:23 38:24
41:20 42:1,3

Official

68

Kneedler 1:17

lands 28:25

47:23 52:2,10
52:12 54:6
60:12

landowner

43:22

landowners

43:3,8,18,23
44:1 46:18
47:12

41:21 42:10,12
42:13,14 43:11
47:18 48:21
60:9

language 28:4
40:10,14,25

large 27:13
largely 7:19
larger 9:1,3
lark 17:17
Laughter 57:7
law 4:13 6:7,11
6:12,21,25 7:7
21:8 24:20
25:12,13 26:4
26:4 37:6 52:1
61:16

lawsuit 9:6
leased 46:9
leases 39:6 43:9
43:9 46:11,14

leasing 45:21
leave 13:6,8

14:25

left 11:19,20

15:5

legal 14:16 31:3
31:11,16 57:19

lending 3:19
length 12:23

27:11

lent 59:22
lessened 10:13
let's 29:17
Lewis 56:23
lies 3:24
lift 11:18 22:22

lifted 22:12,13
light 6:8 55:14
lighten 12:6
lighter 12:8
limit 8:11
limited 31:10
limits 51:24
line 19:23 45:8
56:3,5 60:17

lines 19:20
list 58:6
litigated 31:15

31:16

litigation 25:25

36:7 48:3

little 4:14 13:7
14:11 23:15
37:21,24 48:12
58:25 60:1
lively 30:12
LLC 1:3
load 10:13
loam 9:22
located 27:23
log 27:21
logically 15:21
long 12:23 14:3
16:13,23,24,25
22:20,25 26:24
27:8 28:15
35:20

longer 17:6 18:1
look 5:3,10,22

7:21 8:20 9:4,5
9:16 12:9
17:11,14 19:5
19:7,8 24:5
35:24 36:10
40:17 41:15
43:13 49:24,25
50:2,3 51:5
53:7 58:17
60:13

looked 5:17

45:23

lot 5:25 8:12

27:23 54:21,21

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

69

60:23

Louis 61:21
lower 32:17

41:12

low-water 42:14
48:24 56:17,20
56:21

M

Madison 4:20
4:21 27:17
54:14,15 55:2
55:11

main 55:4
maintained

34:20

major 20:10

35:5

mark 56:20,21
marks 42:14
48:24 56:17
massive 3:23
master 7:25

24:23

master's 9:16
24:24 58:17

matter 1:11 7:7

8:19 14:22
21:11 24:8,10
24:21 34:16
61:16 62:13
matters 13:3
31:5 38:10
mean 5:11,12
6:22 10:6,19
10:23 12:13
16:4,5,22,23
17:7,10 20:6
21:14 23:7
27:19 35:11,14
37:14,21 45:22
46:9 49:13
53:25 58:8
60:14

meandered 29:6

42:15

meaning 8:16

means 5:6 6:8,9

26:15 31:4
meant 40:18

53:24

men 22:13
mentioned 10:4
Meriwether

56:23

middle 7:8 8:1
27:21 44:17
61:11

midstream 45:1
midway 60:20
Midwesterner

17:3

mile 21:12 34:11
34:11 44:5,10
44:12,13,24
52:21,22
miles 14:13

16:12,19,23,24
16:25 17:3,8
17:22 18:1
21:12 29:22,23
29:23 35:20
55:14,19,24
56:2,3,4 60:24
61:3,6,14

million 9:9,11
60:8 61:8,9
millions 4:2

30:13 36:21

mind 11:8
mineral 39:5

43:9

minerals 44:2
miners 30:7,8
minimis 8:4,14
8:15 9:12 10:4
10:18 15:5
20:17,19 21:23
26:15 45:3
46:4 56:16
58:5,7,9,13,17
60:22,24 61:7
minimus 13:7
minutes 57:24

Missouri 4:16
14:2,14 15:25
31:17 36:23
51:8 55:12
56:22 57:1,3
57:15,21 61:23
62:3,4

mistake 7:21

27:20

mistakes 4:14
misunderstood

12:3

mixed 23:7
mode 12:21
modern-day

4:24

modes 28:4 30:5
moment 25:23

27:16

money 3:17
Montana 1:3,6
3:4,4,25 4:10
4:17 7:13,23
18:10 24:19
25:11,15 29:4
31:8,11 37:9
41:19 42:1,17
42:21 43:3,23
48:5 51:6
57:20 61:10

Montana's 37:7
Montello 5:8,14

9:25 10:6,24
11:22 16:19
18:24 22:11
27:5 29:10,13
32:13,15,19
35:18,20 39:25
40:6,7,8,10,23
41:3,13 50:11
50:15 51:12
55:17

mountainous
56:25 57:13

mouth 7:21
moved 10:13
11:25 59:21

N
N 2:1,1 3:1
narrow 20:6
nation 48:9

National 37:3

51:17

52:24

nation's 29:14
natural 50:2
nature 8:15 9:6
navigability

4:13 9:18 13:1
18:15,16,19
19:24 20:14
21:3 29:9,20
32:10,19 33:9
34:8,10,13
35:7 41:4
50:10,17 58:22
59:10

navigable 4:22

6:6,13,19 7:1,7
8:2,21,23 9:2
14:5 15:8
19:23 21:4,7,8
21:8 23:1,7,11
24:6 27:12
28:9,11,16
29:3,5,6,19
30:2 31:17
33:1,15,17,22
34:3,6,25 35:4
37:1 38:20,25
39:9,13,15,22
40:3 42:18,19
43:15 44:9
46:20,20 47:4
47:18 49:1,3,7
49:10,11 50:23
51:2,9,12 54:2
54:11,16 55:3
56:15,25 57:12
57:22 62:5,7
navigation 4:25

11:13 12:18
14:14 17:11
29:16,20 33:4

33:8 40:4 62:3
necessary 3:13
need 11:12

14:24 54:21

needs 10:3
negligible 8:24
never 7:5 11:19

16:8 41:5
48:13,22 62:7

New 16:23
Niagara 22:23
22:25 23:13
45:5

nice 23:14
non 23:15
nonnavigable
6:15 7:5,8,15
8:1 15:2 17:25
17:25 21:10,15
21:16,16 24:6
32:5 33:16
34:6,17 37:1
37:16,18,25
38:8 44:6
58:13 59:1
60:18

non-de 45:2

56:15

non-navigabil...
13:10,13 19:24
58:23 59:10
normal 17:3
normally 24:22
Northwest 35:4
notice 16:6
notion 14:4,20
notorious 3:18
notwithstandi...

56:7

number 17:9

O
O 2:1 3:1
obligation 42:23
observed 34:7
obstruction

15:11

Alderson Reporting Company

obstructions

10:8 34:19,23
obviously 26:3
26:12 61:12
occasionally

14:2

occurred 7:6
odd 28:7,9
offer 8:17
office 44:23
Oftentimes 38:4
oh 9:12 11:24

23:7,13

Okay 22:15

23:12,20 24:4
38:17 41:11

Oklahoma 5:16
once 20:1
ones 23:11 28:3

33:21

open 3:18 35:6

35:11,15

opinion 12:10
opposite 56:10
opposition 29:7
oral 1:11 2:2,5,9
3:6 18:5 28:19

order 12:6
Ordinance 35:4
Ordinarily

Oregon 43:14

25:16

46:16

origin 6:18
original 6:18

24:22,23

originally 11:6
ought 21:23

33:21

outset 17:15
Outside 30:6
overland 11:1,6

11:8,25 13:8
15:23 62:2

overnight 17:16
overturn 57:20
owned 6:6,18

22:5 23:1,5,6
23:12,13 42:1
46:21 54:6,6

owner 16:2
19:14 39:2
59:14

owners 34:22

41:20 60:19,20

ownership 9:3
34:2,17 39:2,3
39:15,18 47:13
48:14 49:4,12
50:24 53:12
59:9

owner's 19:13
owner-owned

22:5

owning 54:11
owns 7:8 15:8
15:17 24:19
28:23 32:7
39:8 42:12
43:16 45:7
52:2,2 53:20
56:20
ox 11:18
O'Connor 34:7

P

P 3:1
page 2:2 8:21
29:7 37:12
55:16,25

paper 31:15
paragraph

32:14

parallel 49:8
parcel 27:1,14
Pardon 22:17
parlance 14:18
parse 60:15
part 3:14 6:23
13:23 15:1,1
16:7 19:3 22:1
22:1 30:24
36:9,10,11,14
56:18

Official

70

participate

48:12

particular 13:13

particularly

26:6

3:14

parties 42:16
parts 6:19,20
37:17 38:1
52:2 58:20

party 25:6 48:3
pass 19:24 21:9
passage 22:3
patent 47:22,23
path 14:1
pathway 14:5
PAUL 1:15 2:3
2:13 3:6 57:25

pause 25:24
pay 48:16,20

60:5,9

paying 3:16 43:4
people 10:9
13:24 14:1
34:19 46:18
59:14,18 60:15

percent 60:10
perfectly 40:10
period 20:10

permit 21:3
permits 43:14

24:8

44:3

persons 54:6
pertains 19:17

pertinent 9:25

20:25

10:2

Petitioner 1:4
1:16,20 2:4,8
2:14 3:7 18:7
58:1

Petitioner's 3:12
Petroleum 34:8
Phillips 34:8
physically 12:24

26:16,17

picked 12:21
picture 45:24
piece 54:14
pieces 37:1
piers 44:2 59:18
pipelines 39:4
pirogues 54:24
place 9:4,5 53:7
places 58:18
planes 14:21
plants 45:18
play 9:15
played 40:15
please 3:9 18:9

28:22

plenty 41:13

47:11,24

plucked 45:8
ply 54:22
point 4:3 5:20

9:14,17,23
13:4,5,9 17:13
21:15 24:12
55:2,4 58:4,5
58:21 59:13,20
60:23

pointed 9:18

58:23

points 16:22

20:12,24 58:3
59:3

portage 10:4,15
11:1,6,8,9,20
12:5,23 13:9
14:4,10 15:6
15:16,23 16:20
17:12 26:16
27:10,11 29:24
30:12 35:20
36:23 55:15,17
56:1 57:6,9,10
57:11 58:14,24
portaged 32:6,8

36:16

portages 10:23
11:11 55:18
58:5,9,9,11,16

58:19,22

portion 15:18
22:3 27:12
34:3,18 56:11
60:25

portions 8:2

32:4,8

position 36:1,7

48:5 51:2,4

possibility 25:5
potentially

52:22

power 3:20

41:21 45:14
50:21 51:7
59:23

PPL 1:3 3:4
31:14 32:9
41:5,16 42:10
43:24 45:3
48:16 56:14
57:18

PPL's 3:12 29:6

42:6,8 55:5
practicable

22:21

practical 8:19

9:6 45:11

precedent 5:6
7:18 32:21
44:8 57:4

precedents 29:1

29:25 31:19
33:6 57:14

precisely 49:8
predecessors

3:12,12

premise 45:11
present 31:14
presented 30:24

31:7,21

presents 31:11
President's 57:2
pressed 9:11
pretty 51:4
prevails 51:21
prevent 51:10

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

71

49:20 50:6
51:15,22 53:2
53:13

rejected 35:19
relatively 54:19
relevant 5:5
15:7 18:14
24:13 27:13,22
28:1,2 36:6

relied 4:23

41:12

reluctantly

25:10
rely 5:4
remain 35:11
remained 35:6
remaining 57:24
remains 35:15
remand 18:12
remanded 26:10
remands 26:5
remarkable
3:11 51:4

remove 25:18
renegotiated

46:12

42:25 43:4
48:16,20,22
61:9

rents 60:9
reply 23:9
report 9:16

24:24 58:18
representation

61:18

republic 6:24
require 18:12

50:18

required 29:20
reservation 6:2
reserve 18:2
reservoir 17:22

48:22 61:5

reservoirs 3:15

3:25 61:6
respect 10:5

16:21 18:11
30:20 31:13
40:1 48:18,20
54:15

Respondent
1:22 2:11
28:20

result 4:10
retains 9:3
review 24:24
right 8:1 10:16
16:22 19:12
21:12 37:24
38:11,15,16
39:3,20 40:4
41:1 45:10
47:16,20 55:22
60:6 62:4
rights 3:13
17:18 39:5
41:19 44:1
riparian 7:8

19:13,16 21:3
21:9 22:5 27:1
34:22 39:15
60:19

riparians 6:16
river 4:18,19,22

5:3,18,22,25
6:2,8 7:7,15
9:19,21 10:7
11:1,2,19,20
12:7 13:15
14:25 15:2,15
15:18 16:4,7
16:24,25,25
17:19,20,21
18:14 19:2,5
19:12,18 20:5
20:7 21:7,15
22:4,5,6,20
24:13 26:22
27:7,12,17,20
27:21 28:10
29:11 30:4
31:20 32:2,3,4
33:16,16 34:3

recommended

rent 3:10 4:2 9:9

pre-existed 6:4
pre-exists 6:4
principally 4:23
principles 4:12
private 24:15
38:6 41:19
42:16 43:8,18
46:17,25 47:11
47:12 54:6
60:20

probably 24:17
problem 4:23

31:14,15 52:20
60:14

problems 53:1
proceeding

25:17

proceedings
18:12 25:15

process 3:14,15

3:17

product 28:14
proper 27:25

37:20

properly 30:22
property 3:13

6:16 16:2
17:18 19:14,16
38:6 60:20
proposition

54:16

protect 53:6
prove 59:11
provided 57:19
public 33:3,4,11

33:12 37:2
46:14,17 52:19
53:3,5 54:3,8

pull 11:18
purpose 21:22
31:23,25 32:2
33:12 40:24

purposes 18:15

19:11 21:17
28:1 31:25
39:12,17 49:2
49:4,5,12,21

50:1,4,6,24
51:2,3,15,15
53:13

put 5:23 10:12

12:1 17:15
27:23 33:14
34:19,23 45:14
60:7

p.m 62:12
Q

qualify 14:5
question 7:16
13:1 14:16
15:4 18:25
19:11 24:16,20
25:12 28:2,9
30:24 31:2,7
31:12,20,24
32:6,13 34:5
36:10,13,19
40:7 41:7
42:25 44:25
46:1 47:5,9,21
53:3 55:13
59:8 62:1

questions 16:3

30:21

quick 24:16
quiet 25:2,22

quite 10:2 27:8

26:1

39:13

quo 45:16
quote 29:15
quoted 40:25

R

R 3:1
raising 20:12
rapids 20:10
35:14 45:15

Reach 16:1
reaches 18:14

read 22:23,24

19:2

45:8

real 30:18
really 5:15 6:10
7:3,5 11:7,19
14:11,22 15:23
16:18 24:18
36:7 39:14
40:18 43:17
60:15

reason 7:17

32:25 33:2,24
34:1,18 40:11
42:20 43:6
57:19

reasons 39:12
rebuttal 2:12
57:25 58:3
recognize 7:2

8:1 51:13
recognized

29:13 32:11
41:2 42:17
50:13 52:5
54:24 55:5,17
57:11

recognizes 7:10

32:9

25:10

35:21

record 14:12

recreational
4:24 27:24

referring 46:13
reflected 35:3

35:21

reflects 19:14
regard 52:8,9
regardless 51:21

52:1,2

region 17:23
regulate 32:4
52:16 53:20

regulating 54:10
regulation 32:1

40:9 52:21
regulatory

18:17,22 19:1

Alderson Reporting Company

Official

72

side 34:9
sided 37:8
sides 60:21
significant 9:8

57:10

silty 9:22
similar 27:20

55:8

simplest 56:10
sit 43:7 59:16
sitting 12:7

59:21

situation 7:23
12:22 20:20
21:6 22:19
26:8 30:8
31:10 43:24
50:22

situations 44:3
slice 44:22,23
slices 20:6
small 3:24 8:23
26:15 27:9,10

Solicitor 1:17
30:15 44:22

somebody 16:11

45:17

27:18

sort 6:23 10:23

13:17 16:5
23:14 34:24
58:16

sorting 47:13
Sotomayor 8:3,7

8:10,13 9:24
10:17,20,22
11:3,22,25
12:9,16 16:12
16:15,18 17:2
20:17,19 21:2
26:14,18,20
27:3 29:21
30:1,6,17 31:1
44:10,13,16,20
55:19 56:9
58:4

sought 33:3
sought-after

53:8

sound 8:13
sovereign 6:5,24

15:8,15,17
54:1

sovereignty 5:23
38:22 52:6,14
52:17 53:24
54:5

sparse 54:19
speak 7:22

speaking 21:6

special 7:25 9:16

13:14

26:4

58:17

specific 46:13
specifically
17:21 29:8
42:9

sports 28:11
spot 12:1,10,21
St 61:21
start 19:20 20:1

40:19 45:11
59:5

starting 5:20
state 3:19,21
5:24 6:1 7:7
9:7 22:5 23:5,6
23:12,13 25:15
25:17 26:11
28:10,15 29:2
33:15 34:2,17
34:22 37:23
38:22,25 41:20
42:22,22,25
43:1,10,11,16
43:18,19 44:4
45:7 46:21
47:2 48:2,8
49:4,12 50:2
51:3,21 52:14
52:16,17 53:11
53:11,12,19

34:18,20 35:15
35:25 36:9,17
36:23 37:20
38:24 39:23
44:11 47:18
49:25 50:2
51:10 52:1,2
52:10,12,13
54:22 55:3,6,7
55:14 56:6,10
56:25 57:12
58:12 59:7,15
60:1,19

riverbed 3:24
9:8,10 11:16
16:6 22:2
59:17,21 60:11
60:12,16

riverbeds 7:5

28:23,25 29:1
29:8 40:2,3
42:9,24 43:1,3
43:5,7,16
48:14,19,23
54:2,11 56:20
59:9

rivers 4:15 6:6
6:19,19 12:19
15:8 17:3,7
18:11,17 19:18
19:21 28:24
29:5,6,14 33:1
33:4,17,22
34:5 35:5 37:1
44:2 50:7,19
52:13,21,23
53:4,6,9 54:11
54:12 57:21
58:11,14
road 62:2,6
roads 61:22
ROBERTS 3:3
13:12,17 18:3
19:19 25:23
28:7,17 38:23
51:19 52:8
54:13,20 57:23

62:9

rock 9:22
rocks 11:18
role 9:15 40:15

41:1 54:10
route 15:23

61:19

rule 4:4 6:4,18
7:14 9:14 15:7
24:2 32:25
33:2 34:2,14
34:15,19 38:7
41:18 44:21
50:14,21 56:10
56:13 59:8
60:18,18
runs 9:21
S

S 1:17 2:1,6 3:1

18:5

sailor 12:19
San 13:20 14:21
Sanders 17:24
saying 10:7

15:17 24:17
35:25 44:21
51:7,14 52:15
60:8

says 12:11 13:19

17:11 31:1
42:11

Scalia 21:11,14
21:18,22 23:3
23:23 24:1
31:23 35:9,13
40:19 41:7,11
41:17,24 42:7
46:24 47:6,15
47:20 49:16
53:10,15,16
54:5 60:3,11

seasonable

seasons 19:23

19:22

51:23

second 9:5 37:15

secure 17:17
secured 3:12
see 5:7 15:3,6

21:23 34:21,25
38:7,12 40:18
40:19

seek 42:23
seen 16:8
segment 5:18,22

5:25 6:1 8:1
9:19 20:7

segmentation
36:4,7 46:3
segments 4:18

5:3 6:9 7:1

self-evident 20:8
sense 19:5 32:23

sensible 24:12

50:14

27:14

sensibly 26:25
separate 18:22
26:25 37:11
38:5 39:17
47:10,21

separately 9:2

60:25

30:21

served 29:11
31:20 51:9
56:6

serves 49:5
set 8:11
settled 4:11 29:1
Seventeen 16:12

16:23
shed 6:8
shifts 9:21
ships 19:15

35:10

shore 56:10,11
short 37:10
shoulders 27:4
show 30:3 42:15
showed 10:7
shows 61:9

Alderson Reporting Company

serious 29:15

somewhat 24:18

Official

73

56:20 59:6,8
59:22 60:10
62:4

statehood 4:22

5:1 28:1,6 38:9
42:15 49:25
50:8 54:16
55:9 56:1 57:9
statement 48:19
States 1:1,12,19
2:7 6:18,24 7:3
7:4,6,11,12,20
8:11 9:3 18:6
23:2 24:19
25:5,9,14,16
25:21,24 26:10
32:22,25 33:21
37:5,8 38:13
38:19 39:10,13
39:16,16 40:3
41:6,16 42:12
43:20 44:7,9
45:4,21 46:2,5
46:6,9,15 47:1
47:4,7,10 48:2
48:2,4,7,10,13
48:17,22 49:1
49:4,11,12
50:23 51:1,6,7
52:5,7 53:25
54:1,3,10
57:19 58:6
60:3,5,7,20
61:11 62:1

State's 3:10 7:24

14:12 17:10
43:13

status 45:16
stay 26:10
stayed 24:14
Steelheader

46:16

steps 23:15
stop 10:8 44:14

45:1 59:7

stopped 17:11
stops 9:18 20:14

stream 6:14

7:15 8:2,21,23
9:2 37:18 40:9
streambed 7:9
streams 7:14

38:8

stretch 4:22

13:10,14 15:25
17:1,6,21 19:3
19:8,12 22:20
24:13 27:21
36:6 44:10,12
44:14,19 51:8
57:16 58:12,25
61:2,4,17

stretches 9:8,10

17:25 26:6
27:22

strip 3:24 23:18

23:21 60:2
stripes 22:6
strips 22:4 24:14

46:10

subject 38:4
submit 14:22
submitted 62:11

subsequently

62:13

55:20

substantial 3:17

14:25 20:7

substitute 4:24
succeed 4:1
sudden 4:7
sufficient 54:25
suggest 30:23
suggested 35:8
suggesting 4:9

58:23

suggests 3:22
48:20 56:1
61:19

suit 25:21
suitability 57:3
summarized

31:22

summary 30:22

31:6,13

supplemental

42:11

supplies 32:10
supply 32:19
supporting 1:19

2:8 18:7

Supreme 1:1,12

3:25 4:10,17
7:24 18:10
31:8,11 42:21
57:20

sure 6:22 10:2

10:22 12:2
13:2 14:17,19
19:22 21:4
35:15 44:24
51:19

surveyed 42:14
susceptibility

55:3

susceptible

55:10

switch 14:21

T

T 2:1,1
take 6:3 7:15

12:5 13:5
16:22 22:7
26:14,21 27:16
30:11 31:18
36:9,10 40:8
51:25

taken 12:20
40:12 51:4

takes 8:15 48:4
talk 10:14 11:12

53:1 58:16
60:22 61:13
talked 16:19
54:13 58:21
talking 11:10
12:4,13,14
18:15,18 20:5
21:18 28:11
34:6 38:23

42:12,13 46:14
58:9

talks 10:15
58:19,20

tax 42:4
teed 42:24
tell 20:20 30:18

49:15 58:10

tens 4:1
term 36:7
terms 10:4

12:19

test 20:14 21:7
22:7 29:8 31:9
32:10,13,16,19
34:10 36:8
37:13,20 39:22
39:24,25 40:1
41:3 45:2
49:18,20 50:10
50:16 51:16,17
testimony 55:23
tests 18:22
Texas 5:16
Thank 18:3

28:17,21 57:23
58:2 62:8,9
theory 7:24

23:14 29:21
31:16 34:16
51:13

thing 34:24

45:13 55:24
60:21,23

things 10:10
11:17 14:7
46:14 53:20
54:24 59:17,20
think 5:14,15,20
6:25 7:20 8:6
8:15,17,19 9:5
9:8,10,15,25
10:23,24 11:12
12:10,13 13:9
13:11 14:1,21
14:23,23 15:21
15:22 16:1,9

16:15 17:6
18:21 19:17,19
20:6,13,18,22
20:22,23,23,25
21:5,25 22:2,7
22:7 23:9,17
23:22,23 24:10
26:7,19,21
27:10,10,11
34:4 36:6
37:19,22,25
38:6,16 39:8
39:24 40:1
41:14,15 43:22
43:25 44:4
45:25 47:3,7
47:12,15,24
48:15 49:15
50:14,19 51:1
51:3,4 52:16
54:7,19 55:2
55:11,22 56:2
56:5,9,12,24
57:10 60:22
61:9,25

thinking 13:18

40:22,23 45:20
third 9:14 50:3
Thompson

16:15 17:7,8
17:12 53:8
thought 8:12

23:12,23 26:25
46:24,25

thousands 43:14

45:4 52:23
55:8

three 8:17 18:10

18:11 30:20
49:18
tide 6:14
time 18:2 20:11

28:5 33:19
37:15 38:9
49:25 50:1,8
53:22 55:9
57:9

Alderson Reporting Company

times 5:25
title 16:3 18:15
18:19,22 19:11
21:17,22 25:2
25:22 26:1
28:1 29:1 32:7
32:11,12,20
40:8,12,14
41:4,14 44:6
49:18,24 50:2
50:4,10,17
51:15 54:11
today 3:4 55:7
today's 30:13
Tokyo 13:19,22

13:25
told 9:24
tolls 34:23
topographical

topography

20:9

9:15

trade 30:5
traders 30:7,9
traditional 4:6

41:18 62:2
trail 5:10,12
train 29:22
transfer 13:14

38:3 44:7

transport 12:25
transportation
15:10,13 18:16
28:5 35:1
transversed

trappers 54:18

26:24

54:20

travel 28:5 30:5
traveled 30:4

36:22

traveling 36:16
traverse 56:11
traversed 15:11

15:18

traverses 29:23
traversing 56:22

Official

74

trial 26:5
tributary 9:20
trouble 30:19
Trout 52:25
true 4:25 45:15
48:8,11 59:7

truly 3:10
trust 33:3,11,12

37:2 52:19
53:5 54:3,8

try 8:6
trying 60:7
Tubbs 55:25
tune 4:1
turn 9:12
turns 37:23
two 8:2 10:23,25

13:3 14:7
44:18,20 49:17
58:14 59:17
62:6

type 50:5
types 43:14
typically 25:21

U

ultimately 16:3
unbroken 29:19
underlie 16:3
underlying

28:24 34:18
39:18 54:12
underneath

3:24 37:16,23
52:3

understand 12:4

15:19 17:4
32:25 34:16
40:9 43:21

understanding

12:2 43:11

understood 29:4
32:18 33:13,19
40:2 41:18
42:19 45:6
46:20 51:17
52:18

undisputed

61:14,14,20
uninterrupted

29:16

Union 7:12
United 1:1,12,19
2:7 6:24 7:3,20
9:2 18:6 23:2
24:18 25:5,9
25:14,16,21,24
26:10 37:5,8
39:10,13,16,16
41:6,16 42:11
43:19 44:7,9
45:4 47:1,4,7
47:10 48:2,2,4
48:7,10,13,17
48:22 49:1,4
49:11,11 50:23
51:1,6,7 53:25
57:18 58:6
60:3,5,6,19
61:11 62:1

Unlimited 52:25
unnavigable

16:7

unquestionably

unrebutted

36:24

36:21

unsettle 4:11
unusual 43:12

48:12

unworkable

22:3

upend 32:20
upland 48:21

60:16

upper 4:16 19:2
61:23,23 62:4

urging 45:4
use 4:24 10:5,7
11:16 19:1,17
24:12 27:24
33:4 42:4,23
44:1,4 48:23
50:8 54:18

55:3,10 57:15

useful 19:9
uses 33:5
Utah 5:5,7,15
7:22,22 9:16
32:11 36:13
44:8 54:9
58:18 60:24
utilities 3:19
U.S 5:5,7
V

v 1:5 3:4 5:5,7

5:16 24:19

value 8:24 30:13
vanguard 32:12
versus 59:10
vessels 19:1
view 19:3 37:6

45:19

viewed 6:15

15:9,9

views 41:16

48:11

W

wagon 10:11

walked 10:11

12:20

13:20

Walla 62:3,3
want 14:8 21:21

27:16 42:3,4
44:1 55:13
60:1,8,15
61:13,24

wanting 45:12
wants 39:1 59:6
warrant 37:11
Washington 1:8

1:15,18,21
13:19 43:13
62:3

wasn't 11:4

13:23 17:12
30:24 34:8
waste 37:15

water 18:18
43:15 44:16
49:10 54:22
55:6,7

waterfalls 35:14
45:15,18 46:10
waters 6:13 21:3
28:16 39:9,13
39:15,22 40:3
42:18 44:8
46:19,20 49:1
49:3,10,11
50:23,23 51:23
54:2

waterway 14:1,6
waterways
38:20,25

way 12:25 14:23
14:23 23:18,18
33:14 35:20
44:21 50:18
56:8,18 59:11
Wednesday 1:9
weigh 18:13
weighed 27:8
weighing 31:4
weight 53:17
weird 48:13
well-recognized

4:6

well-settled 4:12
went 12:18

17:17 61:20,22

weren't 6:20
western 7:19

46:6

We'll 3:3
we're 12:13,14
18:15,18 20:4
20:5 21:18
23:19 34:6
38:23 39:24
42:12,13 44:21
44:23

we've 30:16 51:5
whatnot 27:24
whatsoever 5:9

Alderson Reporting Company

Wildlife 52:25
willing 53:10
wins 43:3
Wisconsin 11:2

11:21

words 40:13
work 22:16,18
worked 24:23
world 41:15
45:13 53:9
56:24

worth 9:11
wreak 46:5,8
wrecking 24:5,9
wrecks 23:14
write 57:5
written 40:13

59:12

wrong 22:24
31:16 47:16
50:25

wrote 57:10

X

x 1:2,7

Y

yards 13:21
years 3:21 29:10

31:19 32:21
42:3,5 51:18
57:4,14 59:22
59:25

Yorkers 16:24

$50 9:9,11 60:8

$

61:8,9
1

1 21:12
1-day 57:9
10 22:10 24:14

56:3

10-foot 22:4
10-218 1:4 3:4
11-day 57:8
11:08 1:13 3:2

Official

75

5 24:9,11,13
35:20 56:3
5-mile 55:17

58:10

50 29:23 51:18
57 2:14 17:11

6

6 17:22
60-mile 62:6
600-mile 62:1

7
7 1:9 56:3
70-feet 27:8

8

8 56:2
8-mile 58:10
8-1/2 16:25

12:09 62:12
13 6:18
140 29:10 31:19
32:21 57:4,14

16 16:24
17 8:21 29:22,23
37:12 55:14,24
56:4 61:14
17-mile 15:24

61:4

172 29:7
18 2:7
18a 55:16
18-mile 15:23

55:15
1850 7:4
1851 7:10,13
1864 30:12
1868 30:12
1910 17:14,18

17:20

1999 42:21

2

2 16:19 17:8
18:1 35:4

2.8 16:16 20:19

21:4,12

20 22:4
200 17:3
2011 1:9
26 46:2
27 55:25
28 2:11

3

3 2:4 60:13
30 14:13
30-day 57:6
32-day 57:6
37.5 60:10
4

4 57:24
4.35 60:24 61:3

61:6

5

Alderson Reporting Company

